weeknights, 8-10pm et anderson cooper goes beyond headlines tell stories many points view, make mind news.
kyung lah stephanie becker, cnn updated 12:10 pm et, sat september 30, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)the scene terrifying -- entire sections mexico city office building fall away crash ground. screams people reacting almost worse. (cnn)the scene terrifying -- entire sections mexico city office building fall away crash ground. screams people reacting almost worse. moment, captured cellphone video, shows one number buildings, apartments schools governmental offices, collapsed 7.1 magnitude quake hit mexico september 19. "i've seen video," says mark schlaich, vice president engineering los angeles-based alpha structural inc. "it's we're trying prevent here." schlaich waves central los angeles multistory apartment complex he's standing under, pre-1978 wood-frame soft-story building -- so-called first story substantially weaker flexible stories it, lacking walls frames street level, usually reserved parking spaces. alpha structural retrofitting apartment complex's ground floor, installing much thicker steel beams columns, rebar heavier plywood. mexico city's numerous building collapses stark reminder what's come california. "every 20-25 years, los angeles hit major earthquake," says schlaich. 23 years since 6.7 magnitude northridge earthquake hit city 1994. "statistically, it's coming." reducing number buildings might collapse 2008 study, us geological survey found there's greater 99% chance 6.7 magnitude quake larger hitting california area next 30 years. type quake along san andreas fault southern california could kill estimated 1,800 people, study said, injure 53,000 result $214 billion damage. california's infrastructure could crippled weeks, months. stark recognition numbers, october 2015, los angeles enacted nation's sweeping seismic regulations, requiring 14,000 buildings retrofitted withstand violent shaking. apartment building alpha structural retrofitting one city-identified vulnerable buildings. schlaich points new steel column next clearly smaller, older column. steel column goes 5 feet ground, plus 2 feet additional concrete it. "this column keeps people alive, building won't collapse," explains schaich. problem retrofitting los angeles, say seismologists, expensive process happening slowly, expected complete 2022. san francisco, similar city law retrofitting soft-story buildings enacted 2013. rolling four phases, san francisco seen compliance near 99% phase one two, 85% phase three, says bill strawn, spokesman san francisco's department building inspection. fourth last phase retrofitting city's soft-story buildings wraps september 2018. strawn says complete, building collapse rate substantially improves san francisco. "we go estimated 1 4 collapse rate nonretrofitted buildings quake 1 30. that's minimal retrofitting," says strawn. 2008 study estimating damage $214 billion based state buildings time, efforts retrofit buildings city level "undoubtedly change statewide damage estimates," says geophysicist doug given, serves earthquake early warning coordinator usgs. developing early warning system another tool would save lives reduce costs earthquake, one given calls "a no-brainer." earthquake early warning system, it's called, best available technology give seconds' -- times, minutes' -- notice earthquake coming. would use seismometers buried underground detect shaking crucial moments it's perceptible areas experience quake, sensors distributed across west coast capture data real time. beneficial part 30-60 seconds, says caltech engineering seismology professor tom heaton, simply heads-up. children get desks move safer areas school. surgery stop. trains come halt. "this system provide much information possible make best decisions earthquake," says heaton. mexico city quake, early alert system warned people 30 seconds advance earthquake hit, allowing flee vulnerable buildings move safer areas. mexico put robust warning system place nearly 5,000 people died 1985 mexico city quake. early warning system also place japan decades. today, cellphones school alarms ring unison quake hit, high-tech system installed kobe earthquake 1995. united states, early warning system development, stalled due federal funding constraints. usgs says 40% necessary sensors eew system ground. hurdles stand way "we two-thirds annual operating funds," says given. "we're trying build system limited funding stream never get fully functioning system rate." "i can't help think mexico city, people killed buildings falling debris. ... don't want see situation here," says. "i fear regret didn't chance." usgs caltech seismological laboratory started research eew 2006 thin budget, relying federal funding private donations. 2012, went live beta system, earlier year rolled pilot program train systems utilities. year, underscoring lack national urgency eew, trump administration initially budgeted nothing toward usgs eew system. bipartisan demands members congress tentatively restored usgs eew funding $10.2 million year, although congress yet vote budget. state california last year also allocated $10 million developing eew system. usgs says eew system cost roughly $38 million build $16 million year operation maintenance. "it's frustrating," says heaton. "if look countries, got message big important earthquakes. we'd like happens." points nation's attention disasters political priorities one reasons slow rollout eew system. result, says, "we're ready." heaton underscores 7.2 earthquake southern california would mean. "you'd see collapse literally hundreds older concrete frame buildings," says. "you'd see collapse many tall steel buildings built 1995. might even see collapse today's modern tall buildings. could bad scenario. honestly don't want live see day." 100,000 people -- even many 300,000 -- could displaced major earthquake hit los angeles, estimates aram sahakian, general manager los angeles emergency management department. cities states try prepare big one, seismologists city officials also recommend prepared personal level. "a major disaster, like 7.2 earthquake, overwhelm resources," says sahakian. "you person, family, neighborhood need prepared get response call 911. need able survive hours days."
tony marco ralph ellis, cnn updated 1:58 et, wed august 19, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)three people unaccounted tuesday landslide struck new-home development outside city alaska panhandle, authorities said. four people missing today #sitka flash flooding, landslides sinkholes http://t.co/xugyhao6nz pic.twitter.com/mmghxgrwvq (cnn)three people unaccounted tuesday landslide struck new-home development outside city alaska panhandle, authorities said. four people missing today #sitka flash flooding, landslides sinkholes http://t.co/xugyhao6nz pic.twitter.com/mmghxgrwvq three working housing development heavy rains caused landslide, authorities said. "we able anything ground far search rescue ground unstable," police chief sheldon schmitt said. " significant part hillside come down. homeland security coming assess situation. ... sitting tight right it's unstable, it's continuing rain." one house destroyed another heavily damaged, city website said. state emergency declared city borough. sara peterson, city's public information officer, said three landslides struck coastal city 9,000 people. city ordered evacuation 20 30 homes, said. gov. bill walker planned visit sitka wednesday. "our thoughts prayers missing people affected disasters sitka today," walker said. "thank volunteers emergency responders sitka police fire departments working hard protect lives property alaskans."
manu raju senior congressional correspondent cnn, covering capitol hill campaign politics. full bio manu raju senior congressional correspondent cnn, covering capitol hill campaign politics. raju veteran reporter washington, previously served top capitol hill correspondent politico seven years. prior time politico, raju reported hill newspaper, congressional quarterly inside washington publishers. long frequent guest political talk shows tv radio. raju multiple journalism awards reporting major battles consuming washington coverage campaign politics. 2012, raju part team four reporters white house correspondents association's prestigious merriman smith award presidential reporting deadline pressure coverage debt ceiling crisis. 2015, raju also awarded first prize society professional journalists d.c. beat coverage 2014 midterm elections, folio: eddie award feature profile senator elizabeth warren. raju developed reputation reporter find politicians privately discussing public's view. well known sharp skillful questioning politicians, skill showcased 2014 moderated debates two biggest races country -- key senate seat colorado hotly contested governor's race well. raju got start media working student newspaper badger herald university wisconsin-madison, alma mater. writing roots extend late grandfather, gopalakrishna adiga, legendary poet south india wrote language kannada. raju long-suffering chicago sports fan native greater chicago area.
john berman co-anchor "cnn newsroom" poppy harlow. full bio john berman co-anchor "cnn newsroom" poppy harlow. previously served co-anchor cnn's morning show "early start" christine romans "at hour" kate bolduan. coming cnn, worked abc news since 1995, appeared television since 2001. regular contributor abc's broadcasts, including "world news diane sawyer," "good morning america," "nightline," "20/20" contributed abcnews.com. berman helped lead gma's coverage gop primaries 2012 covered 2008 presidential campaign, following republican candidates sen. john mccain, r-ariz. former massachusetts gov. mitt romney gop primaries, well as, then-sen. barack obama, d-ill., general election. 1999 2000, berman worked off-air reporter abc news covering george w. bush's presidential campaign. logged hours then-candidate bush nearly reporter, following bush 45 states early fundraisers first months white house. berman covered stories ranging war iraq best way catch catfish barehanded. interviewed newsmakers barack obama lionel richie, prime minister iraq mc hammer. embedded reporter invasion iraq reported israeli invasion lebanon 2006. berman also covered indian ocean tsunami banda aceh, indonesia, steroids scandal american sports. 1997 1999, berman head writer "world news tonight peter jennings." traveled jennings columbine school shooting colorado, cuba pope's historic visit. also worked jennings throughout impeachment hearings president clinton. berman part "world news tonight" team recognized 2004 edward r. murrow award best broadcast, awarded james beard award 2010. berman started abc news desk assistant working overnight shift 1995. native carlisle, mass., graduated harvard university, president hasty pudding theatricals. likes red sox. problem that?
michael bass cnn's executive vice president programming. role, oversees new york- atlanta-based live programs, including mornings, dayside, prime time, weekends. addition, manages network-wide booking, sponsored content special projects, "cnn heroes" in-house original documentaries. bass based new york. full bio coming cnn, bass served co-executive producer "katie" 2012-13. prior joining daytime talk show, senior vice president strategic initiatives nbc universal 2008-2012. role, managed variety company-wide projects support nbcu's strategic priorities, working closely entertainment, sports, news, local media cable divisions -- cross-platform events like super bowl upfronts. previously, bass served 2002-2007 senior executive producer cbs news' "the early show," "the saturday early show," "the cbs morning news." prior that, senior broadcast producer nbc's "today" december 1995 december 2000, served show's interim executive producer december 2000 may 2001. tenure, bass responsible planning producing today's coverage summer olympics atlanta (1996) sydney (2000). also conceived popular series "where world matt lauer?" launched third hour program executive producer "later today." bass also executive producer "weekend today" february 1998 june 1999. held position broadcast producer "today" 1994 1995 producer show 1989 1990. also nbc news, bass supervising producer "nbc nightly news tom brokaw" september 1992 january 1994. held producer roles nbc sports' coverage 1988 1992 summer olympics also produced nbc's olympic late-night program summer 1996. recipient five sports emmy awards olympics work. bass staff writer san diego union-tribune 1985 1986, prior this, broadcast career began abc sports olympics researcher, 1983 1985. writer peabody award-winning wide world sports 25th anniversary show. bass graduated honors harvard university degree history literature.
katishi maake, cnn updated 5:44 pm et, fri october 6, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)democratic lawmakers expressed outrage friday trump administration announced rollback obamacare's contraceptive mandate. rule announced today yet another attempt sabotage affordable care act, direct attack women. launching attack friday long weekend isn't fooling anyone -- women smarter that, mr. president. #handsoffmybc outrageous wrong. #birthcontrol healthcare shouldn't decided woman's boss government. #handsoffmybc https://t.co/9dfwcvrn1l rollback birth control coverage direct attack rights women access health care. cannot stand. 1/ https://t.co/g5lqe9y3si washington (cnn)democratic lawmakers expressed outrage friday trump administration announced rollback obamacare's contraceptive mandate. rule announced today yet another attempt sabotage affordable care act, direct attack women. launching attack friday long weekend isn't fooling anyone -- women smarter that, mr. president. #handsoffmybc outrageous wrong. #birthcontrol healthcare shouldn't decided woman's boss government. #handsoffmybc https://t.co/9dfwcvrn1l rollback birth control coverage direct attack rights women access health care. cannot stand. 1/ https://t.co/g5lqe9y3si new rules would let broad range employers -- including nonprofits, private firms publicly traded companies -- stop offering free contraceptives health insurance plans "sincerely held religious moral objection," senior agency officials department health human services said call implementation enforcement new rules. 55 million us women birth control coverage zero out-of-pocket costs, according national women's law center. democrats calling administration's decision, would restrict access birth control, attempt sabotage affordable care act undermining women's health. frustration trump's decision quickly trended #handsoffmybc hashtag twitter. house minority leader nancy pelosi quick criticize decision, calling "despicable" "a sickening attack women's health." "this administration's contempt women reaches new low appalling decision enable employers health plans deny women basic coverage contraception," pelosi said friday news release. senate minority leader chuck schumer criticized said "outrageous decision." "we long turned page days boss could stand woman healthcare decisions -- decision drags country backwards," said statement. "this decision latest series moves trump administration made undermine sabotage health care system." rep. katherine clark, d-massachusetts, said move "outrageous wrong." democrats plan resist trump's latest measure said fear restricted access contraceptives could effects like increase unplanned pregnancies. "millions americans -- women men -- rely contraception prevent pregnancy, avoid sexually transmitted infections manage range health conditions," sen. elizabeth warren massachusetts said news release. senate minority whip dick durbin echoed warren's sentiments friday statement. "denying health care millions women across america dangerous unfair," said. "and know denying access family planning leads unplanned pregnancies sadly abortions." several republicans, including house speaker paul ryan, applauded trump's decision protecting religious freedom. "under obama administration, constitutional right seriously eroded," ryan said statement, adding: " conscience protections installed ensure people organizations freely live religious convictions moral beliefs." ohio republican rep. jim jordan, member conservative house freedom caucus, said measure victory people faith upholding first amendment rights. "the hhs mandate forced religious employers pay services violated consciences," said friday news release. "i applaud president trump administration boldly standing constitution first amendment."
award winning journalist carol costello host hln's across america carol costello, two hour news show airing weekdays 11-1pm et, covering day's news most-talked stories. based network's los angeles bureau. full bio award winning journalist carol costello host hln's across america carol costello, two hour news show airing weekdays 11-1pm et, covering day's news most-talked stories. based network's los angeles bureau. prior joining hln february 2017, costello anchored 9 a.m. 11 a.m. (et) edition cnn newsroom. costello interviewed four former u.s. presidents, president jimmy carter, president ronald reagan, president george h.w. bush president bill clinton covered four presidential inaugurations. costello also covered 2016 political campaign cnn anchored conventions part network's coverage debates. costello covered terrorist shootings san bernardino orlando anchored wall-to-wall coverage flight mh-370 george zimmerman trial. additionally, part cnn's peabody award winning coverage gulf oil spill, 2008 presidential election hurricane katrina. time cnn, also reported boston marathon bombing, last space shuttle launch, ohio midterm elections, shooting virginia tech, tsunami disaster south asia, russian school hostage crisis hurricanes charley, frances, ivan jeanne. costello's work honored numerous times, 1991 emmy award special crack cocaine, upi award, several associated press awards multiple emmy nominations. costello joined cnn october 2001 wjla-tv washington, d.c., she'd worked five years anchor investigative reporter. that, spent three years wbal-tv baltimore anchor co-anchor. began career weekend anchor reporter wakr-tv akron, ohio, moved wbns-tv columbus, ohio, work station's principal weeknight anchor. costello earned degree journalism kent state university kent, ohio.
daniel burke, cnn religion editor updated 10:46 et, fri november 11, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)dilshad ali never felt fear. series explores lives muslims age isis islamophobia. i'm scared today last day felt somewhat safe wearing hijab. https://t.co/c29v7ggoxj cnn's tim hume contributed report. (cnn)dilshad ali never felt fear. series explores lives muslims age isis islamophobia. i'm scared today last day felt somewhat safe wearing hijab. https://t.co/c29v7ggoxj cnn's tim hume contributed report. donald trump proposed banning muslims entering united states, plan running mate called "offensive unconstitutional." trump suggested monitoring mosques said thinks "islam hates us," attributing anti-american enmity faith 1.6 billion people. even islamophobic incidents spiked highest levels since 9/11 attacks. ways, ali, 40-year-old mother three, buffered long brutal 2016 presidential campaign. trods familiar ground virginia home. drops children school, teachers know knows them. shops grocery store, people smile smiles back, face framed hijab. polling station tuesday, greeted warmly neighbors, even ones whose cars bore pro-trump stickers. editor muslim section patheos, website specializing spirituality, ali edited plenty stories muslims' distress. knew fears intimately. never felt stomach-churning anxiety. wednesday morning. "i woke today finally felt it. felt personal, like election vote me." tumultuous tuesday ticked toward worry-producing wednesday, scores muslim imams activists, soccer moms scholars, commiserated concern uncertainty, even pledged hold fast faith build stronger coalitions fellow minorities. 7 10 muslims said would vote hillary clinton, democratic nominee, according october survey council american-islamic relations. 4% said would vote trump, perhaps expected win. said election felt like betrayal, half country turned them. "our worst nightmare materialized last night," said wardah khalid, writer foreign policy analyst. "a man built platform bigotry, misogyny, vilification muslims minorities highest office land." 'open season' muslims "shock. complete utter shock," said yasir qadhi, well-known muslim scholar memphis, tennessee. he, like many others, said expected clinton win presidency. "and us genuinely worried. fear safety wife hijab; children streets; minorities everywhere struggling understand happened." sahar aziz, professor texas a&m university school law, said trump's election represents regression less tolerant inclusive america. "the general mood seeing among muslims concern trump presidency open season them. muslims worry children may experience bullying school trump's victory validated mainstreaming islamophobia. women afraid wear headscarves public case invites physical verbal assault." amirah waite, 19-year-old american-indonesian college student lives hawaii, said wednesday "so terrified can't stop shaking ... stuck country hates me." secret costs islamophobia muslims said fear trump install anti-muslim activists, whose work promoted, powerful roles justice department agencies. "we could go back post-9/11, witch hunt-type environment," said sheikh hamza yusuf, scholar co-founder zaytuna college, country's first accredited muslim college. california, abdullah bin hamid ali said african-american muslims somewhat less unsettled immigrant co-religionists. seen enough american history sense elections often hinge turning white voters, sometimes fear demonization "others." "while can't say i'm 'happy' results (i wasn't rooting clinton, either) somewhat hopeful trump's election force people come closer much nicer one another," said abdullah, professor zaytuna. omid safi, director duke university's islamic center, likewise said hopes trump's election foster sense solidarity among marginalized, including muslims hispanics, african-americans native americans, poor people gays lesbians. "if want see america proud of, build america. present, part past, shared future." determined change dalia mogahed, researcher pollster, said shock, unable believe 50.5 million americans voted elect donald trump president. "i'm scared means family, especially kids. kind america inherit?" mogahed said determined change "single plan." continue advocate behalf country's estimated 3.3 million muslims wear hijab public, proudly announcing identity muslim. many muslims expressed similar thoughts wednesday, resolving continue fight civil rights, remain vigilant encroachments claim american identity. "i'm assuming next four years hard, must use trump victory renew connection god communities organize around important issues concern us all," said imam suhaib webb, popular cleric based washington. "regardless situation, god commands us stay dedicated good other. nothing changes. passion greater yesterday." 'god's got us' wednesday morning texas, sheikh omar suleiman one toughest conversations recall young daughter. "she couldn't understand america would elect bigoted bully. neither i. reminded bullies: stand them." hundreds miles away, ali similar conversation 13-year-old daughter. middle-school student become deeply invested presidential campaign. class held mock elections watched debates extra credit. knew trump mocked disabled reporter. heard said muslims women. daughter sobbed shoulder, ali tried comfort her. bluff called. "you're right, it's ok," ali said. "none ok. eventually, ok. practicing muslim family presidents elections nationalism culture one thing, god us. god reasons things don't understand, fully believe he's got us." later wednesday, ali's husband dropped daughter school, ali called school counselor. asked counselor check daughter, quietly, let know ali worried.
jacque smith manages cnn digital video domestic news team. full bio jacque smith manages cnn digital video domestic news team. team produces, shoots edits digital video news feature content. smith cnn since 2008, working writer cnn digital features team cnn health team joining digital video team cross-platform producer 2014.
cnn belief covers faith angles world's biggest stories, breaking news politics entertainment. it's edited cnn's daniel burke contributions cnn's worldwide newsgathering team. see previous content
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. lead
amanda barnett, cnn updated 2:51 pm et, sun september 29, 2013 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. exploring heavens spaceships fancy orbiting telescopes like hubble pretty routine stuff nasa. space agency going low-tech get good look eagerly anticipated comet. space agency plans launch balloon -- yes, balloon -- study comet ison, much-hyped comet many hope put big sky show coming months. astronomers scrambling figure ways learn comet, that's balloon comes in. isn't kind balloon buy kids party store, things common. nasa says scientific balloons made polyethylene film like material plastic bags, filled helium, like party balloon. nasa balloons carry payload weighing 8,000 pounds (3,600 kilograms), weight three small cars. gondola carry instruments. similar balloons fly 26 miles high stay two weeks. 671-foot-tall balloon monitor ison called brrison, balloon rapid response ison. according nasa, float 120,000 feet earth observe comet -- science targets -- using telescope instruments. expected stay nine 11 hours. "by ascending 99.5% earth's atmosphere, brrison able study materials within comet," andy cheng, principal investigator, said brisson's website. "it's possible water organic chemicals comets may played important role evolution life earth." launch, nasa's columbia scientific balloon facility fort sumner, new mexico, targeted 8 p.m. et saturday, weather permitting. comet ison nearing mars way toward sun fly 730,000 miles sun's surface november 8. survives, could brighten put big show passes earth's orbit way back outer reaches solar system. comet enthusiasts hope able see without binoculars telescopes. closest approach earth would december 26, could visible northern hemisphere weeks early 2014. things know comet ison comet discovered russian astronomers vitali nevski artyom novichonok september 2012. named night-sky survey program, international scientific optical network, group observatories 10 countries organized track objects space. amateur astronomers already posting pictures making calculations comet's future. want try track comet ison themselves, nasa tips comet ison website.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. newsroom
stephanie elam, cnn updated 5:49 pm et, fri october 13, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. las vegas (cnn)even though could see eyes going back in, debbie gomez wanted husband leave route 91 harvest country musical festival her. clark county firefighter, jesse gomez trained respond emergencies. didn't matter duty time. know officer gone beyond job requires? e-mail us beyondthecallofduty@cnn.com. las vegas (cnn)even though could see eyes going back in, debbie gomez wanted husband leave route 91 harvest country musical festival her. clark county firefighter, jesse gomez trained respond emergencies. didn't matter duty time. know officer gone beyond job requires? e-mail us beyondthecallofduty@cnn.com. programming note: watch "new day" "cnn newsroom" friday see inspiring stories officers going beyond call duty. jesse's cousins opal steve ruiz start driving parking lot, people desperately trying get ride too. "people started pounding car," debbie said, beginning cry recalled fear. "i still floorboard screaming, 'you can't leave! can't leave! jesse's still there!'" steve opal also realized needed help, telling debbie going put victims car get hospital. debbie, still shock leaving jesse behind, couldn't wrap head around asking her. read jesse gomez another off-duty firefighter saved lives concert. stopping car moving seats debbie's chevrolet tahoe, steve opal loaded man shot car. woman didn't know man staying jumped car well. 'you get together!' "they yelled said get together," debbie said. "you one local here. one knows get hospital, debbie!" opal drove close 90 miles per hour get hospital, sense calm finally washed debbie. steve trying get vital information man share doctors. woman trying contact man's wife. debbie would later learn gunfire erupted, shot back protecting wife two best friends. now, job keep man talking. "we joking around -- victim," debbie recalled, remembering told looked like drove truck. said drive ford f-150. "i said 'well, taken chevy better trade chevy girl!'" time get hospital, man can't speak anymore. he's moaning. light attack false reports multiple shooters las vegas strip, spring valley hospital lockdown. steve pounded glass emergency room door. "we got victim! got victim!" yelled doors opened medical professionals came get man losing consciousness. young woman hopped car went him. new perspective first responders debbie couldn't sleep days found happened shooting victim helped save. man, chosen keep identity private, survived back home texas. husband, three hours shooting began reunited another hospital. "i remember standing curb. like one around -- lonely curb," debbie said, remembering jumped car hug husband. "i couldn't believe holding him." whole experience given debbie new perspective jesse every day first responder. "when comes door know seen bad stuff night upset wants awhile," debbie said, taking pause reflect. "i get now. get it."
ariane de vogue, cnn supreme court reporter updated 6:16 et, fri october 6, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)at 10:00 a.m. tuesday morning, 400 people, including journalists former california gov. arnold schwarzenegger, settled seats us supreme court hear turned incredibly lively educational argument partisan gerrymandering. washington (cnn)at 10:00 a.m. tuesday morning, 400 people, including journalists former california gov. arnold schwarzenegger, settled seats us supreme court hear turned incredibly lively educational argument partisan gerrymandering. everyone else wait. case could profound effect future elections political direction country, ruling may come months, tuesday's oral arguments reminder supreme court sets path comes transparency. court junkies around country erupted outrage transcripts oral arguments appeared later usual court's website. top that, chief justice john roberts denied congressional request release same-day audio proceedings. and, always, video cameras allowed. blockbuster term including cases religious liberty, immigration, privacy voting rights, questions asked supreme court remains opaque. "scotus still living 70s comes technology transparency," josh douglas, election law expert university kentucky college law, tweeted. "this important election law case years -- one may impact entire foundation democracy," douglas said later. "yet us could dc oral argument left waiting hours read cold transcript justices said." court regularly posts audio website friday arguments. some, that's good enough. fact, four congressmen wrote roberts last month asking provide live audio redistricting case avail. "in past 17 years, court released same-day audio 26 cases heightened public interest," wrote democratic reps. gerry connolly, mike quigley jerry nadler, along gop rep. ted poe. "this case undoubtedly meets bar." separate statement, connolly said supreme court "is mystical priesthood" digital age "it strains credulity modest effort transparency would prove impossible." congressmen, really want, however, court televise proceedings. last january, introduced cameras court act, legislation believe would "increase public transparency improve understanding proceedings." sign justices going budge issue. "i tell day see camera come courtroom, it's going roll dead body," retired justice david souter said 1996. things haven't really changed. justices seemed open idea taking bench, changed minds reached high court. things stand, support among current justices proceedings televised. appearance last month newseum, justice sonia sotomayor said confirmation process, met several senators told thought senate installed cameras chamber 1980s, stopped members sit next other, listen discuss problems person. feared televising proceedings court might lead justices playing cameras others refrain asking questions. acknowledged audio released feared cameras would change institution. sotomayor didn't add court currently collegial branch government. implicit comments: ain't broke, don't fix it. things stand, according court's public information officer, approximately 400 seats courtroom, include bar section, justices' guest box, 36 press seats public section (240 seats general public, groups guests court.) often line forms early morning, even previous day big events hopeful individuals (and sometimes hired placeholders) begin arrive sleeping bags tow. jeffrey p. minear, counselor roberts, responded congressmen, said, chief justice "busy current argument session." minear said roberts "has worked throughout tenure make supreme court's work accessible public." noted court posts opinions online simultaneously announcement, posts oral argument transcripts soon possible posts audio recordings end week. addition, november, court plans launch electronic filing system make virtually filings accessible online, without cost, public." live broadcasts. minear reiterated live broadcast streaming oral arguments "could adversely affect character quality dialogue attorneys justices." added, "the chief justice appreciates shares ultimate goal increasing public transparency improving public understanding supreme court." sentence gave hope gabe roth, runs organization called fix court pressed transparency. roth points lower courts offer live access appellate arguments "pro-transparency reforms" come fits starts. example, court ran live audio last year great hall justice antonin scalia's memorial. things least going electronic, roth noted. "the justices' financial disclosures yet released online, summer press public may obtain via thumb drive via paper," said. "the court refuses post basic information online, justices periodically recuse cases, yet next month, attorneys able file cases motions electronically."
jennifer hansler, cnn updated 1:52 pm et, tue october 24, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)and two: us syria. cnn's bijan hosseini, angela barajas, kevin liptak, ben westcott steve george contributed report. (cnn)and two: us syria. cnn's bijan hosseini, angela barajas, kevin liptak, ben westcott steve george contributed report. nicaragua signs paris agreement, united states syria two nations world refused members climate pact. central american country held signing deal two years, based criticisms "insufficient" addressing climate change. monday, however, nicaraguan government announced intent join accord. vice president first lady rosario murillo said sent "document adhesion" united nations, according nicaragua's state-run media outlet el 19 digital. "it instrument world allows us unify intentions efforts face climate change natural disasters," said agreement. landmark pact agreed upon nearly 200 countries 2015 dedicated lowering emissions strengthening countries' abilities deal effects climate change. nicaragua country reject time. syria, plunged civil war, present negotiations. us president donald trump announced june nation would withdraw climate accord, process complete 2020. "we're getting out," said. "and start renegotiate we'll see there's better deal. can, great. can't, that's fine." leaders france, italy germany indicated joint statement us could unilaterally renegotiate agreement. un body facilitated deal said "cannot renegotiated based request single party." white house reiterated last month intention pull deal unless changes made. "there change united states' position paris agreement," white house spokeswoman lindsay walters said. "as president made abundantly clear, united states withdrawing unless re-enter terms favorable country. trump's decision leave accord sparked massive outcry. former president barack obama, whose administration negotiated agreement, said decision would hurt american workers, saying "the nations remain paris agreement nations reap benefits jobs industries created." numerous foreign leaders decried decision. mayors governors throughout us vowed carry commitments climate accord jurisdictions. us trails china world's worst emitter carbon dioxide, according european commission's emissions database. 2015, released 5.1 million kilotons carbon dioxide, 28 european union countries combined, makes almost sixth global emissions. fiji host next round climate talks bonn, germany, un climate change conference (cop23) next month. according un framework convention climate change (unfccc), world leaders discuss "advance aims ambitions" paris agreement.
sara ganim, cnn updated 6:50 pm et, tue july 7, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)they called "dog pound." email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. @coachbeckman fired you'll hear plenty stories right he's dangling scholarships like carrot (cnn)they called "dog pound." email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. @coachbeckman fired you'll hear plenty stories right he's dangling scholarships like carrot separate practice women's basketball players university illinois, majority black, athletes often allegedly harassed attacked things nothing basketball. like neighborhoods grew up. family life. common, women told cnn, assistant coach refer race, tell "culture" "poison" "toxic" starting team, predominantly white. road games, players say segregated -- black players separated white ones hotel rooms. bad, women said, four players past season transferred program university illinois schools. nearby, university's memorial stadium, members football team say harassed too. recalled two instances players physically hit coach. another player, type 1 diabetes, said shamed weight. cnn spoken 15 recently departed players football women's basketball teams, allege wide range misconduct persistent bullying athletes coaches. addition, players families complained cnn pressured play injuries go far beyond typical tough nature college sports. one case, women's basketball player says forced play injured toe ended diagnosed broken foot. athletes football team also complained injuries taken seriously -- one recalling time coaches threatened sidelines would lose scholarship limped across field knee injury. overall, students parents teams say culture coaches bullying students, frequent threats take away scholarships even though university policy says athlete can't lose scholarship injury performance sport. university's athletic director, mike thomas, acknowledged allegations serious call question culture program. "i certainly troubled allegations. allegations don't match core values," said. "certainly student athletes need environment that's safe, that's healthy, takes well-being primary importance." women's basketball head coach matt bollant head football coach tim beckman declined comment university spokeswoman. "look university lose," said lydia tuck, mother one former women's basketball player. "i'm sure they're worried title ix funding. i'm sure hope go away." racism alleged women's basketball team women's basketball team lost four girls transfer year -- reasons: allege pervasive emotional abuse. eight former players -- seven since sued university -- talked cnn, said assistant coach mike divilbiss verbally attacked players daily, going personal issues learning disabilities, family life neighborhood grew up. divilbiss could reached comment. "the way would attack personally horrible," said jacqui grant, former player. "he came character," said former player alexis smith, claiming divilbiss reprimanded moving apartment two teammates bollant's recruits. "he said, 'i feel like trying poison girls. even move them? trying poison them.' " "when tried defend myself," added, "he like, 'don't try come me, i'm wrong person.' " kierra morris, left team put medical disability, said coaches told didn't want "culture carrying over" new recruits. another former player, amarah coleman said race constant underlying distinction divilbiss often said things like, "you know black people play." another former player, taylor tuck, said divilbiss made comment three black players sitting together restaurant, saying, "all black girls sitting together, that's segregated." divilbiss left university coming administrators call "mutual understanding" bollant, following complaints parents, bollant remains position. several former players parents told cnn separate practices held team -- one practice group majority black, called "the dog pound," players understood mean favor. practice group majority white, made starters team. addition, tension groups encouraged, parents wrote letters complaint university april. players said "dog pound" called "crabs," which, conference call, seven players explained like this: "crabs never get bucket always pull down. explained practice. ... climb top pull down. like, bums, dragging everybody down." coleman said felt uncomfortable team preparing play one majority african-american, "because coach divilbiss would single blacks team talk black team thinking. ... division team time made feel like coach thinking blacks think alike." continued examples: "in practice black player would certain move, (divilbiss) would make comment stating 'that's west side coming out' (referring chicago's predominantly black west side). people proud from, coach saying make fun from." recruitment previous coach six former players spoke cnn said divilbiss made several comments singled black players primarily recruited previous coach, also african-american, white players primarily recruited bollant. players say race wasn't factor led mistreatment; say believe also fact recruited previous coach. "it combination. like african-american, weren't recruited them," former player nia oden said. lawsuit, interviews cnn, women said divided race sharing hotel rooms road games. women's parents complained april, school internal investigation diversity council, "preliminary findings" found wrongdoing came allegations racism bullying. led outcry former players parents. response questions cnn, university announced five days later hired chicago law firm "finalize preliminary review" found wrongdoing. "there's rush judgment. know go investigative process, process complete look next steps," said thomas, university's athletic director. "... think could watching practice, could hear coach say something two different kids, two different kids might take different way might take different way. think coaches, university illinois across country, kind things we're going paying attention moving forward." university also hired separate law firm look claims medical mistreatment different teams. allegations include lawsuit filed june 8 former illinois soccer player says concussion mishandled. suit says university failed follow protocol handling concussions defender casey conine injured, returning play doctors cleared her. 'a culture mental emotional abuse' divilbiss' departure comes three sets parents wrote letters administration late april. one letters, tuck, former player, husband wrote bullying racial tension team systematic "epidemic," accused bollant, women's basketball head coach, creating "a culture mental emotional abuse." family another player, taylor gleason, wrote "bullied demoralized daily" forced play injured toe, later diagnosed broken foot. "she's happy new school starting over," father told cnn later. "just happy there." many players left playing schools, said much different much better experiences. tom grusecki, stepfather one former player, wrote letter school divilbiss belittled daughter front team estranged relationship father dyslexia. one player said became depressed, "it hurt get bed." "the things said personal, attacking, would single felt alone," gleason said. sarah livingston, transferred 2014 season, said final straw, her, another coach turned away one divilbiss' rants. "that kind embodied whole attitude everyone wasn't divilbiss," said. "he wouldn't stand us. wouldn't tell coach stop. coach bollant would quiet continue practice," smith said. thomas, university's athletic director, said university reevaluating practice allowing head coaches vetting assistants bring in. university responded saying it's disappointed lawsuit came findings internal review thomas asked staff closely monitor team activities meantime. "i cannot stress enough anytime learn student feels experience illinois isn't excellent, take concerns seriously. intended external review process student-athletes families would help us better understand concerns perceptions," chancellor phyllis wise said statement. many players parents told cnn won't happy long bollant remains. one said, "when head coach, stop see it. can't stop bullying amongst staff, problem." tuck, whose daughter graduated program, said behavior coaching staff changed drastically bollant hired daughter's freshman year. and, said, attitude coaches drastically different daughter, plays much better circumstances connecticut. football allegations alleged bullying university illinois wasn't isolated one program one coach. also allegations wrongdoing football program. recently graduated football player kenny knight three former players spoke cnn say witnessed two incidents past two years head coach tim beckman physically rough players. one player still team declined teammates talk happened. witnesses said start one practice, player ran onto field helmet unbuckled, beckman ran him, grabbed face mask jerked head back forth, yelling him. 2013, knight says, similar thing happened him. says beckman grabbed tackled behind, throwing ground practice. two former teammates witnessed incident backed up. say happened knight hit "dirty" another player head -- something that's prohibited college football. "i immediately got face it," knight said player hit him. "before chance lift finger, matter seconds, grabbed shoulder thrown ground. livid, thought going look see one teammates thrown down, looked saw tim beckman staring face. shocked. don't think uttered word." university says beckman thought breaking fight; knight several players witnessed incident said physical fight happening beckman hit knight. knight's father said night incident, beckman told him, "kenny accidentally fell backwards him." knight father tried look practice tape review happened. "there 35 seconds blank screen. could see dial moving let know still playing, film seen. wouldn't play anybody else," said. two players said they, separately, also looked incident practice tape, there. university says "dead time" plays normally recorded practice. knight says beckman called day speaking father apologize, knight never reported incident anyone university fear he'd lose scholarship. "he never allowed coach again," knight said. national college players association also involved, offering guidance players coming publicly demanding illinois fire coaches involved physical verbal abuse. "you tough hell without abusing players," said ncpa president ramogi huma. "everywhere, coaches yell cuss. happens everywhere. doesn't happen everywhere racism," huma said, referring women's basketball team. "what doesn't happen everywhere forcing players play serious injuries. it's regular coaches put hands players -- that's breaking fight, that's starting fight," said, referring alleged incident football team. "at end day, it's student-athlete experience, part safety, well-being health," said thomas, university's athletic director. "and abuse acceptable. hold staff high standard. line what's acceptable acceptable really microscope right now." brothers allege bullying football team knight others speaking fellow former teammate simon cvijanovic went twitter may say he'd pressured beckman go back field soon knee surgery play shoulder injury. instead, quit team, started hashtag #banbeckman inspired several teammates speak up, including knight, former player nick north, told cnn he, too, pushed back practice hurting knee ligament. "they kept saying, 'you need go back there,' even though knew wasn't 100 percent," north said. "i'd literally limping running, could see it. ... like, can't this, you're going leave. can't play here. we're going take scholarship." north graduated december. players cnn spoke said many stories like exist, players afraid speak they're still team. "when @coachbeckman fired you'll hear plenty stories right he's dangling scholarships like carrot," cvijanovic tweeted. later said, "they act like bodies disposable feel way also else we're team players. ... there's nowhere turn twitter went." says beckman threatened say bad things character national football league scouts unless returned field injuries. once, says, pressured return two weeks ankle injury doctor told needed six- eight-week recovery. younger brother, also played football quit team, struggled well. type 1 diabetic, peter cvijanovic trouble gaining weight says bullied daily coaches it. "they made step scale three five times day," simon cvijanovic said. "every time walked by, coach would make step scale, peter would hang head get scale. throwing morning anxiety -- knee weight issue." university says cannot discuss cvijanovic brothers' nick north's allegations detail privacy laws. thomas said aware many allegations asked comment cnn, adding would ask firm investigating expand scope. "anytime receive types allegations, brings great concern," said, later adding, "here university illinois, health well-being student athletes number one priority. ... anytime anything rises level student athlete mistreated, would address immediately."
tom sater meteorologist weather anchor cnn international. five-time emmy winning meteorologist, sater also provided reports sister networks cnn/u.s. hln. full bio tom sater meteorologist weather anchor cnn international based network's global headquarters atlanta. five-time emmy winning meteorologist, sater also provided reports sister networks cnn/u.s. hln. member national weather association (nwa), earned seal approval american meteorological society (ams). sater covered many international weather stories including super typhoon haiyan november 2013. covering landfall impact philippines, one first international broadcasters report storm's intense winds made strongest typhoon make landfall landmass recorded history. earlier year cnni 'best news coverage -- international' category reporting typhoon haiyan prestigious royal television society awards. joining cnni, sater worked meteorologist number u.s. markets including washington, d.c.; atlanta, georgia; cincinnati, ohio; montgomery, alabama lexington, kentucky, 1998 regional emmy outstanding weather anchor wkyt station's chief meteorologist. ended winning award four consecutive years time wttg washington, d.c. broadcasting runs family. sater's wife, born punjab, india, morning news anchor local television station atlanta. twin girls live small horse farm north georgia.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. erin burnett front
coy wire former professional football player joined cnn sports 2015 full time anchor correspondent. full bio coy wire former professional football player joined cnn sports 2015 full time anchor correspondent. home base cnn center, wire anchors daily bleacher report segments, covers events serves expert contributor across platforms. appears regularly cnn programs early start, new day cnn newsroom, addition hln's morning express robin meade weekend express lynn smith. also contributes cnn international's world sport program cnn digital broad range crossover sports stories. wire's many field assignments include on-the-ground coverage 2016 rio summer olympics, 2015 fifa women's world cup, super bowl 50. former college pro athlete, wire brings insider experiences, insight, credibility contacts new role. graduated stanford university, first player modern school history lead team rushing one year tackles another. post college drafted nfl buffalo bills 2002. would named team captain bills atlanta falcons career spanned nine years. also received ed block courage award, walter payton man year award, special teams player year honors career. athletic career backdrop, wire wrote inspirational book, change mind, published 2012. served game analyst, studio analyst online writer fox sports joining cnn. wire grew outside harrisburg, pennsylvania, enjoys cheering keystone state sports teams addition bills, falcons, nerd nation... stanford cardinal.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. across america carol costello
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. situation room
jessica schneider, cnn updated 12:51 et, sat september 30, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)trump administration lawyers demanding private account information potentially thousands facebook users three separate search warrants served social media giant, according court documents obtained cnn. washington (cnn)trump administration lawyers demanding private account information potentially thousands facebook users three separate search warrants served social media giant, according court documents obtained cnn. warrants specifically target accounts three facebook users described attorneys "anti-administration activists spoken organized events, generally critical administration's policies." one users, emmelia talarico, operated disruptj20 page inauguration day protests organized discussed; page visited estimated 6,000 users whose identities government would access facebook hands information sought search warrants. court filings, talarico says account information given government, officials would access "personal passwords, security questions answers, credit card information," plus "the private lists invitees attendees multiple political events sponsored page." warrants first reported lawnewz.com. facebook went seven months legal proceedings could make three facebook users aware government attorneys wanted online details. "we successfully fought court able notify three people whose broad account information requested government," facebook spokesperson said friday. "we grateful companies civil society organizations supported us arguing people's ability learn challenge overly broad search warrants." american civil liberties union, representing three facebook users, filed motion quash warrants thursday. "what particularly chilling warrants anti-administration political activists going political associations views scrutinized administration protesting," said aclu attorney scott michelman. facebook initially served warrants february 2017 along gag order barred social media company alerting three users government seeking private information, michelman said. however, michelman says government attorneys dropped gag order mid-september agreed facebook could expose existence warrants, prompted latest court filings. michelman, however, says court filings associated search warrant, response facebook, remain seal. justice department commenting search warrants, government attorneys issued similar search warrant web provider dreamhost seeking wide-ranging information visitors website disruptj20.org, provided forum anti-trump protestors. case, doj modified initial search warrant seeking millions ip address visitors merely clicked disruptj20.org website. dc superior court judge robert morin largely granted prosecutors' request collect vast set records company, include emails users signed account associated website, membership lists. addition account talarico disruptj20 page, search warrant also seeks information personal accounts lacy macauley legba carrefour. carrefour self-described political activist pushed back search warrant court filings, saying facebook account "contains significant amount private material concerning personal life." carrefour denied involved riots washington, dc, inauguration day, acknowledged "participated helped organize dozens demonstrations events various types service political causes."
samantha barry executive producer social emerging media cnn worldwide. barry leads social teams cnn bureaus works closely cnn digital leadership editorial strategy. teams span publishing, newsgathering, digital tv. full bio samantha barry executive producer social emerging media cnn worldwide. barry leads social teams cnn bureaus works closely cnn digital leadership editorial strategy. teams span publishing, newsgathering, digital tv. leadership, cnn become followed fanned news organization world. led team organization large compelling work social audiences array platforms including facebook, snapchat, twitter, instagram, line, kik emerging media. cnn, barry spearheaded cnn's 2016 election coverage across social platforms, received first ever edward r. murrow award excellence social media webby award recognizing 2016 campaign work. born ireland, barry worked 25 countries, reporting training journalists broadcasting, technology social media. barry joined cnn bbc world news london, served social media producer journalist, focusing using social media tool newsgathering audience building. barry previously worked reporter producer rte newstalk ireland. she's spent time papua new guinea australian broadcasting corporation (abc) worked social media technology trainer u.s. state department, united states institute peace internews. barry graduated dublin city university masters journalism. 2016 fellow columbia university school's prestigious sulzberger executive program guest lecturer yale. barry based new york continues extensive domestic international travels.
arwa damon award-winning senior international correspondent based cnn's istanbul bureau. full bio arwa damon senior international correspondent based cnn's istanbul bureau. one network's middle east specialists, damon frequently reports conflict zones across middle east north africa region, often focusing work humanitarian stories. damon's coverage latterly focused fierce fighting iraq militant islamist group isis iraqi national army associated paramilitary groups. reporting proven essential, guiding viewers complexities bloody ongoing conflict. late 2016 damon spent several weeks iraq covering mosul offensive. traveling iraqi special forces isis-held mosul, convoy came attack multiple times forcing damon cnn photojournalist brice laine seek shelter civilian house. 28 hours damon, laine iraqi soldiers trapped isis fighters surrounded house. damon, kept notes throughout battle, laine, shot video throughout despite suffering minor injuries, eventually rescued iraqi military. damon laine's reporting deadly attack recognized prestigious george foster peabody award "calm, clarity, razor-sharp photography" story demonstrates "psychological burden isis reign terror, especially children." work also recently honored two edward r. murrow awards 'excellence video' 'reporting: hard news' categories. recipient international women's media foundation's 2014 courage journalism award, damon also extensively covered bloody civil war syria deepening humanitarian crisis spread across region wake. reports focused -- amongst subjects -- refugee crisis across europe, effect devastating 'barrel bombs' air raids civilian population aleppo moves turkish security forces reinforce country's historically porous border syria. height europe's refugee crisis 2015, damon followed refugees syria iraq traveled foot, boat train across hungary neighboring countries. relentless - moving - coverage demonstrating dire situation refugees facing recognized emmy award gracie award 2016. boko haram kidnapped 200 nigerian girls school chibok april 2014, damon travelled west africa -- including islands lake chad -- hunt islamist militant group intensified. enterprise storytelling contributed cnn's 2015 peabody award, recognized damon's "high-risk field reporting" made network's coverage story "comprehensive indispensable." 2013 damon travelled odzala national park congo filmed documentary 'arwa damon investigates: ivory war', following elite team rangers track poachers kill thousands endangered elephants year. following attack us embassy benghazi 2012, damon one first journalists arrive scene, recovering ruins building personal diary slain ambassador j. christopher stevens. investigative reporters editors (ire) presented damon top award, ire medal, in-depth reporting attack aftermath. moving istanbul, damon based cnn's beirut bureau part network's team covering arab spring. work reporting popular uprisings egypt libya, damon awarded emmy outstanding live coverage current news story, well peabody award "cnn's reporting arab spring including worldwide coverage: egypt --wave discontent uprising libya". damon also focused environmental issues visited forests central indonesia special documentary 'sumatra: paradise lost?' uncover issues including deforestation threats extinction man species face. 2015 damon launched non-profit organization, international network aid, relief, assistance (inara), based personal experience war zones war-torn nations. inara focuses building network logistical support medical care help children fallen cracks need lifesaving life altering medical treatment. result inara's incredible impact short period time, damon recently recognized multiple awards including 2017 james w. foley humanitarian award; world children's 2017 crisis award; syrian-american medical society's humanitarian award; time warner's 2016 richard parsons community impact award excellence service award, voted employees time warner (parent company cnn). damon began career cnn network's baghdad bureau. based iraq 2003-2010, covering number landmark stories iraq including deadly battle fallujah, trial execution saddam hussein country's first national elections following toppling ba'ath regime. joining cnn, damon spent three years covering iraq middle east freelance producer various news organizations including feature story news (pbs) cnn. damon graduated honors skidmore college new york double major french biology minor international affairs. born boston, massachusetts spent childhood morocco turkey. fluent arabic, french turkish.
rosemary church award-winning anchor cnn international, 25 years experience covering major global events. full bio rosemary church award-winning anchor cnn international, 25 years experience covering major global events. seen cnni morning across europe, africa middle east, afternoon across asia australia 'cnn newsroom,' airs cnni cnn/us monday thursday 8-9am gmt/ 3-4am et. based network's headquarters atlanta, church cnn since 1998. time, anchored major world events unfolded across globe, including rise isis syria iraq resulting coalition airstrikes militant group; global fight deadly ebola virus; search malaysia airlines flight 370; crash malaysia airlines flight 17 ukraine; arab spring; japan's 2011 earthquake tsunami; killing osama bin laden; capture saddam hussein; wars afghanistan iraq; september 11th terrorist attacks united states 2001. october 2014, church colleagues, nick paton walsh phil black, best "short news report" category 2014 association international broadcasting (aib) awards london. received award coverage unrest ukraine, involved deadly shooting kiev's independence square anti-government protests early 2014. june 2014, also awarded prestigious golden nymph award best 24 hour news programme monte carlo television festival, coverage. church anchored main stories 2013, including boston marathon bombing manhunt followed; syria's civil war; north korea's missile threat; death south africa's iconic leader, nelson mandela, well days mourning followed. 2012, church anchored cnni's coverage u.s., egyptian french elections, well ongoing violence syria instability egypt. march 11, 2011, news broke earthquake japan - possible tsunami - church starting show. anchored four hours breaking news coverage, tragedy unfolded across northeastern coast country. earlier year, church anchored breaking news arab spring, including protests tunisia; eventual fall egypt's hosni mubarak; overthrow libya's moammar gadhafi august eventual capture killing october 20. news death osama bin laden broke church's watch may 2011, also anchored cnni's coverage death north korea's kim jong il december 2011. global news stories church covered 2010 include deadly earthquake haiti; chile's earthquake tsunami february; deadly plane crash april took life poland's president; eruption iceland's volcano disrupted global travel. june 2009, church extensive anchoring iran's deadly uprisings, following presidential elections. days that, reported sudden death pop icon michael jackson. 2006, church anchored cnni's coverage israel-hezbollah conflict, later earned network edward r. murrow award. prior joining cnn, church spent five years senior anchor australia's first international satellite news service, australia television (atv), also filing stories atv australian broadcasting corporation's (abc) foreign correspondent program, traveled asia. atv, church new york festival's tv programming award coverage hong kong handover china 1997. church started abc tv 1991 reporter anchor main evening news bulletin state tasmania, also anchored summer edition abc tv's world noon program. this, church spent five years parliament house, canberra, national media liaison service, also anchoring weekend news bulletins channel ten's news service. 1984, worked media officer speechwriter member federal parliament. born belfast, northern ireland, church lived london family moved australia 8 years old. bachelor arts degree australian national university canberra completed graduate studies media law university canberra. church married three children.
follow cnn's coverage pyeongchang, south korea, hosts winter olympics, february 9-25, 2018.
mark preston cnn's executive director political programming senior political analyst. hosts "full stop mark preston" siriusxm potus 124. full bio mark preston cnn's executive director political programming senior political analyst. hosts "full stop mark preston" siriusxm potus 124. preston joined cnn 2005 political editor received number prestigious honors, including emmys -- 2006 2012 -- network's award-winning election night coverage. 2008, preston played key role network's peabody award-winning coverage presidential primary debates campaigns. work also recognized several award nominations, including two emmy nominations cnn's 2008 political programming. additionally, preston's work contributed cnn earning syracuse university's i-3 mirror award youtube presidential debates 2008, national headliner award 2009, eppy award 2009, multiple webby award honors, shorty award 2013. named executive editor 2014, preston served cnn's political director. prior joining cnn, preston senior staff writer capitol hill newspaper roll call, worked six years. career also includes correspondent roles states news service, wire service washington, marietta daily journal marietta, georgia, several georgia press association georgia associated press reporting awards. preston received two bachelor art's degrees, journalism history, university massachusetts amherst.
thom patterson, cnn updated 3:10 pm et, thu january 29, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)imagine putting wings white house getting fly around world. cnn's joe havely contributed report. (cnn)imagine putting wings white house getting fly around world. cnn's joe havely contributed report. it's done. that's basically air force one nutshell. pentagon announced next generation world-class icon military version 747-8. nearly 30 years, current jumbo jet air force one customized version 747-200b. newer 747-8 longer efficient older brother. new one necessary? "it time upgrade," air force secretary deborah lee james said statement wednesday. difference civilian version president fly on: commander chief gets plane that's tricked top-of-the-line parts backup systems. lot technology that's -- well -- classified. related: what's new 747-8? let's remind world fascinated flying technological marvel. half century, passengers aboard u.s. presidential aircraft witness american history. consider fact things happened air force one: -- president kennedy's body flown washington burial. -- lyndon johnson sworn president. -- lbj let reporter interview plane's stateroom, dressed towel. -- woman ever swear-in u.s. president aboard air force one. -- president richard nixon became first american president visit china, historically opened door u.s.-chinese relations. -- air force one served president george w. bush's command center first hours following 9/11 attacks. one main goals new plane, air force said, affordability. although plane designed fuel efficient predecessor new 747-8 lists around $368 million. add presidential bells whistles sticker price goes north rather quickly. 747-8 made u.s., air forced hinted plus. "the boeing 747-8 aircraft manufactured united states (that), fully missionized, meets necessary capabilities," wednesday's statement said. four-engine airbus a380 -- world's largest airliner -- made france, thought boeing's competition air force one. president get new jumbo jet? hard say. everything goes smoothly, boeing likely work air force hammering timeframe production schedule. december, boeing 36 unfilled orders 24 passenger versions 12 freighter models. humble beginnings small, less impressively outfitted plane fdr administration, current jumbo jet status, air force one become world-class icon representing power privilege. members congress, celebrities advocates clamor seats it, get rare access president -- arguably powerful person planet. plane's well-known blue white color scheme largely created legendary industrial designer raymond loewy approved jfk himself. officially, aircraft called air force one sitting president aboard. presidential fleet includes several aircraft, two 747s, time time carry "air force one" call sign. presidential helicopter operated marine corps often seen ferrying president south lawn white house. it's called "marine one." rare occasion president travels army aircraft, known "army one." logic, aircraft used carry vice president given call sign "air force two." years, various "air force ones" fair share hollywood screen roles. example, technological wizardry onboard present 747s got wide play 1997 harrison ford action movie "air force one," president's jet hijacked russian nationalists. however, many outlandish gizmos featured film owed to, shall say, artistic license airborne fact. plane example escape pod. equipped parachutes -- massive slipstream created aircraft size 747 means can't used. designed operate independently possible ground services, aircraft fly halfway around world without refueling. carry automated baggage loaders well built-in front aft stairs enabling operate self-sufficiently airports airfields around world, minimizing security risks. capable in-flight refueling airborne tankers, manufacturers say aircraft "virtually unlimited range" -- passengers sustained galleys capable storing 2,000 meals time. entire aircraft shielded effects electromagnetic pulse -- wave energy generated detonation nuclear device disable unprotected electronics. features private accommodation, office space workout room president, first lady family; well accommodation offices support staff security personnel. also board stateroom conference rooms can, ever necessary, converted fully functional airborne medical center.
doug criss, cnn updated 8:53 et, thu october 5, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)thomas gunderson one almost 500 people wounded las vegas shooting attack route 91 harvest festival last weekend. (cnn)thomas gunderson one almost 500 people wounded las vegas shooting attack route 91 harvest festival last weekend. hospitalized gunshot wound leg. gunderson laying hospital bed wednesday president donald trump first lady melania trump swung by. president first lady went las vegas meet talk survivors shooting, well first responders, doctors nurses visit. trump neared gunderson's hospital room, wounded man made point, despite leg injury, stand president entered room. "i never lie president great country comes shake hand!" gunderson wrote facebook video posted brief meeting. "there may plenty issues country always respect country, president flag. shot leg not, stand show president respect deserves!" video viewed millions times. video, melania trump enters room first greets gunderson, begins get bed. tells doesn't get up, insists. president comes room, trump shakes gunderson's hand says "this guy looks tough me." later post, gunderson said shared video facebook, "with intention spreading uplifting message horrific time country." fifty-eight people lost lives massacre country music festival, worst mass shooting modern american history.
peter bergen, cnn national security analyst updated 3:01 pm et, sat january 24, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. peter bergen cnn's national security analyst, vice president new america professor practice arizona state university. author "manhunt: ten-year search bin laden -- 9/11 abbottabad." (cnn)on tuesday president barack obama visit saudi arabia pay respects family now-deceased king abdullah successor, king salman. peter bergen cnn's national security analyst, vice president new america professor practice arizona state university. author "manhunt: ten-year search bin laden -- 9/11 abbottabad." (cnn)on tuesday president barack obama visit saudi arabia pay respects family now-deceased king abdullah successor, king salman. smart move obama foreign policy team. all, world's absolute monarchy world's powerful democracy long allies bound together not, course, common values, common interests: ready flow reasonably priced oil and, recently, need fight jihadist terrorist groups. however, number significant tensions arisen u.s.-saudi relationship, presidential visit likely help smooth over. u.s.-saudi marriage convenience first initiated february 14, 1945, u.s. warship cruised suez canal. deck uss quincy president franklin delano roosevelt first met saudi king abdul aziz discuss areas common interest. seven decades since meeting, relationship largely worked well countries. time, saudi arabia provided economic support ensuring steady supply oil political backing american moves effort repel saddam hussein's invasion kuwait seek two-state solution israeli-palestinian conflict. relationship took nosedive revelation 15 19 hijackers 9/11 saudis. oil wonderful way soothing even troubled waters. even though united states dependent saudi oil many countries are, saudis choose raise lower oil production decisions substantial effects global oil prices. that's saudi arabia world's largest oil producer around fifth world's proven oil reserves. today, oil prices tumbling prices haven't seen since great recession 2009, saudis lowered production oil, great boon u.s. economy, even saudis take real hit resulting lower oil revenues. many suspect equally important motive saudi move weaken arch-nemesis iran, also major oil producer. despite saudi oil policies benefit american economic interests, saudi-american alliance--which like melding minds george w. bush administration--has recent years frayed. saudis remain irritated obama didn't follow "red line" threat take action syrian regime bashar al assad regime used chemical weapons population. syria ally iran. saudis also watching continuing iranian-american dialogue iran's nuclear program great concern. believe united states get played iranians allow retain kind nuclear capacity suitable making nuclear weapon. saudis also still angry egyptian dictator hosni mubarak abandoned obama administration "arab spring" 2011. would washington react saudi monarchy faced serious internal opposition: would thrown overboard? saudis also long resented largely uncritical embrace israel republican democrat presidents. common interest overrides many differences syria, washington riyadh threatened rise isis also al qaeda's affiliate there, nusra ("victory") front. early 2014 1,200 saudis traveled syria, 220 returned kingdom, according senior saudi official. result, great concern kingdom potential "blowback" problem posed militants battlefield experience acquired syria. that's saudi arabia made crime early 2014 citizens travel fight overseas conflicts syrian war. move coincided appointment prince mohammed bin nayef head powerful saudi ministry interior. nayef, al qaeda's yemeni affiliate tried assassinate 2009, implacable foe jihadist groups arabian peninsula, made vital ally united states. many ways real news king abdullah's death, long expected--as appointment king salman brother muqrin crown prince--was appointment 55-year-old nayef deputy crown prince. passes torch saudi succession beyond gerontocracy king abdullah's brothers new generation. also strongly signals saudi royal family values firm stand jihadist terrorist groups favored nayef washington. that's saudi planes taking part u.s.-led coalition bomb isis positions iraq syria. saudi arabia united states also strong interest stabilizing situation yemen. houthi rebels seized yemeni capital, sanaa, largely pro-american government president hadi stepped last week. saudis americans regard al qaeda affiliate yemen real threat also watching alarm houthi shia rebels -- saudis view stooges iran -- taken yemeni ministries played key role fighting al qaeda. much discuss american president foreign policy team meet saudi king advisers tuesday. read cnnopinion's new flipboard magazine. follow us twitter @cnnopinion. join us facebook/cnnopinion.
bob van dillen meteorologist hln's morning express robin meade. joined network september 2002. prior hln, meteorologist local stations including wcnc (charlotte, nc), wtvh (syracuse, ny), wutr (utica, ny). career began long island, new york, forecaster metro weather service. received american meteorological society (ams) seal approval 1997.
julian zelizer, cnn political analyst updated 8:10 pm et, sun october 1, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. julian zelizer history public affairs professor princeton university author "the fierce urgency now: lyndon johnson, congress, battle great society." he's also co-host "politics & polls" podcast. opinions expressed commentary own. (cnn)from start administration, president donald trump used presidential tweets wrecking ball divides, insults spreads false information -- confusing nation ways potentially benefit administration. join us twitter facebook julian zelizer history public affairs professor princeton university author "the fierce urgency now: lyndon johnson, congress, battle great society." he's also co-host "politics & polls" podcast. opinions expressed commentary own. (cnn)from start administration, president donald trump used presidential tweets wrecking ball divides, insults spreads false information -- confusing nation ways potentially benefit administration. join us twitter facebook weekend exception. residents puerto rico struggling survive humanitarian disaster, president sent barrage hate-filled tweets, invoking racial stereotypes fueling division body politic. would grave mistake ask, media often does, whether another "distraction" serious issues confronting oval office, effort shift public attention away president's serious problems like collapse health care legislation growing tension north korea. presidential tweets fact serious business, considered political acts first degree. since founding republic, even age radio, television internet, presidential rhetoric one powerful tools commander-in-chief disposal. bully pulpit, concept trump takes literally, allows president pit social groups one another unite them, convey critical information help times trouble spread false information skews public conversations, assist allies delegitimize opponents. words, presidential rhetoric, including tweets, incredibly significant, every 140-character missive treated deliberate political move. president trump done power tweet? important use medium stir social political divisions, aggravating deeply rooted cultural tensions within national psyche. seen numerous points presidency, including recently tepid response white racist protesters charlottesville blasts african-american players protesting racial injustice kneeling national anthem. "dog-whistles," megaphones, uses get across message loud clear. latest tweet puerto ricans, appears comfortable using words reinforce obvious social stereotypes lazy "uppity" extraordinarily damaging. president trump also used twitter power spread false information strongly influences national conversation. understands 24-hour news media environment, almost impossible reporters ignore says, start discussing latest attempt shock awe, hard stop. result several tweets, national conversations -- official commission -- massive voting fraud despite evidence problem. we've also debated whether president barack obama wiretapped donald trump 2016 campaign, claim fbi officials dismissed. health care debate, president trump frequently made misleading claims legislation considered, promise medicaid spending would go proposed bill. later blamed failure health care legislation filibuster, even though considered rules reconciliation require majority vote -- number republicans simply could meet. trump also used tweet bludgeon opponents. tweets sort ranged ongoing smear media "fake news" attacks fellow republicans congress, accuses incompetency. comes foreign policy, seen dangerous effects tweets, escalating war words north korea heightened potential serious military conflict near future. today, news broke administration trying find diplomatic solution crisis north korea, president tweeted: "i told rex tillerson, wonderful secretary state, wasting time trying negotiate little rocket man...." president tweets, world hears say, people listening person holds tremendous power authority. make mistake it, words president chooses use matter much public policy. words long-term political policy consequences. never seen verbal barrage like witnessed since january. historians look back presidency, trump's twitter feed first thing examine, x-ray troubling soul strategy commander-in-chief.
scott bronstein drew griffin, cnn updated 10:15 pm et, wed february 11, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)car repair shops say auto insurance companies coercing use cheap parts sometimes dangerous practices fix vehicles involved accidents. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. watch anderson cooper 360 weeknights 8pm et. latest ac360 click here. (cnn)car repair shops say auto insurance companies coercing use cheap parts sometimes dangerous practices fix vehicles involved accidents. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. watch anderson cooper 360 weeknights 8pm et. latest ac360 click here. headlights held together glue, dented rims new hood that's already coming apart among kinds parts allegedly pushed go cars part repairs, according repair shops attorneys general. owners say insurance companies steer policy holders toward body shops follow rules, providing vital source business. add, body shop refuses make suggested repairs quality issues, insurers steer clients elsewhere. major insurers deny claims impropriety. 500 garages 36 states joining lawsuit top insurance companies, states like louisiana, mississippi oklahoma also getting involved. buddy caldwell, attorney general louisiana, filed suit state farm insurance, saying low-cost repair program could dangerous customers get back road vehicles roadworthy. said fears thousands americans could driving round vehicles repaired calls junkyard parts seeking repairs body shops recommended auto insurance companies took premiums picked bill. issue nationwide one, said john eaves, lead attorney body shops involved lawsuit. "it involves people maine mississippi california. every state union experienced sort struggle body shops trying work right way, insurance companies trying cut corners force use unsafe parts unsafe methods cars," said. risky business shops, customers u.s. sen. richard blumenthal, used connecticut's attorney general, says potential small businesses hurt, he, too, believes cars repaired insurance company's preferred service centers pose safety risk. asked u.s. department justice investigate. "the practice steering involves jeopardy consumer concern parts," said blumenthal, referring practice steering customers towards certain preferred service centers. "safety concerns raised practice steering often involves use parts may salvaged inferior even counterfeit real urgent imminent safety concern consumer may idea origin parts are, made them, even whether they're installed properly." "i concerned years think department justice investigating," said. "i believe strongly federal watchdog agencies role protecting consumers serious safety concerns raised practice steering often involving use inferior even salvaged counterfeit parts," blumenthal said. john mosley, auto body shop owner clinton, mississippi, explained saw insurance companies pushing consumers "preferred" shops repairs done faster, cheaper, times unsafely. "the insurance industry set networks shops, direct repair programs," said. "and way shops' performance measured amount cost repair cars particular shop. ... get car in, make look like it's fixed get door." insurance companies cut costs approving recycled parts made original car manufacturer. 'this junk' parker auto body shop monroe, louisiana, matt parker plenty examples. takes replacement toyota tacoma headlight wrapping. it's clearly damaged later glued screwed back together. "you see right bracket knocked previous accident," parker told cnn. "it's got hole here, see screwed bracket back vehicle. see parts knocked glued back together." parker pointed crack lens says fill water first time rains. "this came wrapped up, box, like supposed new part," said. "the insurance company wants us put stuff cars. refuse use part, label us shop willing go along program, try steer business away us. "this refurbished junk is," said. "this junk." louisiana attorney general caldwell said chose sue state farm insurance state farm biggest insurer state. legal filings, company denies allegations, including insists using aftermarket parts. state farm would grant interview, said statement: "our customers choose vehicles going repaired. provide information select service program time making clear select shop work." state farm told cnn talk neil alldredge, national association mutual insurance companies, specifics. "it economic interest insurer car go auto body shop three four times get right," said alldredge. "and notion somehow meant ... shoddy work encourage idea get done quickly move next one really isn't insurance company's economic interest." asked insurance companies would require recommend used parts, fixed parts, aftermarket parts, said: "most companies don't require this. companies offer choice consumer. sort aftermarket part might hear usually cosmetic parts. they're nothing related safety, mechanical parts operation vehicle. ... many cases parts different. they're made factories. one comes auto manufacturer's name it." declined comment recycled parts -- broken headlight cnn saw -- saying know circumstances. alldredge said believe "steering" happening. said benefit preferred-shop program came customers getting repairs done quickly, always customer's choice. "the insurance company may provide list auto body shops, customer say, 'no. wanna go joe's body shop around corner.' that's choice. issue steering already something that's consistent state law something insurance companies do," said.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds.
tony news editor cnn's national content center atlanta, joining network 2000. works crews across country facilitating live coverage news gathering tv digital stories. tony usually works stories western part us, grew up.
doug criss, cnn updated 6:12 et, mon september 25, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)hurricane maria's still -- devastation it's left puerto rico "apocalyptic." here's help victims. here's need know get speed door. (you also get "5 things need know today" delivered inbox daily. sign here.) (cnn)hurricane maria's still -- devastation it's left puerto rico "apocalyptic." here's help victims. here's need know get speed door. (you also get "5 things need know today" delivered inbox daily. sign here.) 1. nfl protests nfl snapped back president trump's inflammatory criticism players protest national anthem. dozens players sunday's games either knelt raised fist "the star-spangled banner." players, often team owners, locked arms. pittsburgh steelers didn't come anthem all, steeler offensive lineman alejandro villanueva -- ex-army ranger -- stood outside tunnel hand heart played. trump, unsurprisingly, didn't back down, saying owners "should something" protests thought "very disrespectful." fans america's popular sport divided too. lots written white, conservative president lambasting protests sports league filled african americans, trump said comments nothing race. here's piece explores unexpected connection slavery, nfl protests national anthem. 2. travel ban president trump's controversial travel ban (it expired weekend), new travel restrictions in. new restrictions hits travelers eight countries: chad, iran, libya, north korea, somalia, syria, venezuela yemen. instances, travel nations broadly suspended, cases, travelers undergo enhanced screening vetting requirements. new restrictions don't kick october 18. 3. elections referendums expected, angela merkel fourth term german chancellor, story election alternative germany, hard-right party founded four years ago. enough votes became first far-right party enter germany's parliament since 60s. it'll also third-largest party parliament. here's piece german elections matter rest world. there's another vote happening that's worth watching: kurds iraq voting referendum independence. kurds, live semi-autonomous region northern iraq, country's largest ethnic minority. tensions iraqi government high. iraq blasted referendum; turkey, also sizable kurdish minority. countries fear vote independence iraq might galvanize movements. 4. health care drive repeal replace obamacare never quite dead. newest last-ditch effort gop senate leaders considering involves tweaking graham-cassidy bill win couple votes. they've already lost rand paul john mccain can't lose another one. they're hoping win alaska's lisa murkowski -- who's leaning 'no' -- loading bill medicaid goodies native americans alaska natives state. whatever come with, done week. deadline repealing obamacare reconciliation -- meaning 50 votes vp pence tiebreaker -- end month. bill's architects, sens. lindsey graham bill cassidy, debate sens. bernie sanders amy klobuchar cnn town hall debate health care. starts 9 et tonight cnn. 5. church shooting woman killed seven people injured shooting church tennessee. man shot killed woman parking lot services burnette chapel church christ antioch ending. entered church two pistols continued firing. stopped church usher. struggle usher, suspect accidentally shot himself. shooter, sudanese man legal us residency, attended church. breakfast browse people talking these. read up. join in. thanks memories millennials, kiss another one 90s icons goodbye. "family matters" house torn down. cool creepy? walmart deliver food house, new service retail behemoth someone put food away too. need ride? uber's deemed "fit proper" london so, least, may hail one stylish black cabs get around city. house hunters daughters needed playhouse, michigan dad built one. it's two stories comes bridge, slide, hardwood floors lights! finally ... slamma jamma yes, we're knee-deep football right now, basketball season's right around corner. let's get ready bini slam-dunking bunny. (click view)
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. amanpour
flora charner producer multimedia journalist cnn based rio de janeiro, brazil. full bio flora charner producer multimedia journalist cnn based rio de janeiro, brazil. role, charner responsible producing reports features cnn international's platforms brazil latin america. major news coverages produced cnn include rio de janeiro's preparations 2016 summer olympics, zika outbreak, socioeconomic crisis venezuela impeachment process president dilma rousseff. joining cnn, charner held writer producer roles al jazeera english, america's quarterly associated press television brazil washington d.c. charner graduated cum laude emerson college b.s. broadcast journalism, holds m.a. politics columbia university's graduate school journalism. fluent english, spanish portuguese.
learn environmental impacts ways use energy everyday lives.
scott bronstein curt devine,cnn investigations updated 9:51 pm et, fri september 4, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. memphis (cnn)federal agents washington raided memphis goodwill week part growing national fraud investigation abilityone, top taxpayer-funded program provides work disabled workers, according inside sources. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. abilityone program first created ambitious, altruistic goals president franklin d. roosevelt congress 1938 help give jobs blind. cnn's drew griffin contributed report. watch anderson cooper 360 weeknights 8pm et. latest ac360 click here. memphis (cnn)federal agents washington raided memphis goodwill week part growing national fraud investigation abilityone, top taxpayer-funded program provides work disabled workers, according inside sources. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. abilityone program first created ambitious, altruistic goals president franklin d. roosevelt congress 1938 help give jobs blind. cnn's drew griffin contributed report. watch anderson cooper 360 weeknights 8pm et. latest ac360 click here. watch latest investigation abilityone tonight 8 p.m. et ac360. two dozen agents numerous federal agencies drove onto memphis goodwill headquarters wednesday, sealing back property containing corporate headquarters, administers millions dollars federal contracts throughout memphis metropolitan area. fraud investigation government program first detailed exclusive cnn story several weeks ago. abilityone management operation, sourceamerica, investigation least four separate offices inspectors general, also u.s. department justice, according inside sources. abilityone sourceamerica, many contracts administer, investigated allegations financial fraud, operating illegal contracts, employing legally required number disabled workers, bid-rigging, contract "steering," possible racketeering, according sources. program one nation's largest taxpayer contracts programs, awarding $2.3 billion annually contractors across country. companies awarded taxpayer-funded abilityone contracts required law 75% work performed blind severely disabled employees. many half contracts across country may operating illegally hiring enough disabled workers, inside sources tell cnn. one former top officer stated repeatedly recorded conversations entire program run like organized crime. "that's way play game. dealing mafia here, old sourceamerica mafia," said jean robinson, former top attorney sourceamerica. described contract-awarding process "sham" driven insider influence cronyism. robinson later fired sued sourceamerica replied cnn comment. abilityone sourceamerica denied wrongdoing operation issued numerous statements recent weeks assuring contractors allies problem program. officials abilityone sourceamerica first said knowledge investigation way justice department. recent weeks, officials sourceamerica confirmed investigation is, fact, ongoing. memphis raid, agents descended corporate offices 9 a.m., arriving 10 federal unmarked vehicles escorted number memphis police cruisers. federal agents, wearing mostly black brown unmarked federal police gear, moved cars around entire corporate offices, sealing office workers officers, memphis police create "wedge" blockade police vehicles, preventing anyone entering leaving. agents moved corporate offices, carrying numerous empty boxes large containers, keeping nearly staff inside, many interviewed asked operations. day wore on, workers inside corporate office let out, one one. left quietly, climbed cars, allowed outside police blockade. almost none employees spoke reporters, simply waving departing. one man identified goodwill workers manager corporate office escorted agents several times black suv, pulled material went back inside. eventually allowed leave, looking shaken passed. asked would comment cnn simply put hand said, "no comment please. comment." another employee spoke reporters, said "no idea" agents gave indication going inside. typical goodwill stores operations recognized public believed investigation, rather specific programs get lucrative abilityone contracts. main goodwill store location affected remained open throughout day. corporate offices, millions dollars contracts administered, raided. dozens goodwill employees main store left bewildered uninformed happening headquarters. since 2010, memphis goodwill industries received $22 million abilityone contracts provide services janitorial work irs public buildings service operate call centers department veterans affairs, according government database federal contracts. memphis goodwill continues list job opportunities related federal contracts website. goodwill offices among major contractors abilityone program. goodwill offices across country receive hundreds millions dollars taxpayer-funded contracts conduct numerous operations ranging sewing uniforms conducting janitorial cleaning services. goodwill operations receive contracts appear independent state state, contracts awarded local offices administer. goodwill one hundreds contractors nationally receive abilityone contracts. memphis raid, led agents office inspector general treasury department general services administration, first expected raids nationally, sources tell cnn. federal agents raid memphis declined speak reporters, asked could provide information, directed reporters u.s. attorney's office memphis, division department justice. calls u.s. attorney's office returned spokesman, told cnn "no comment" would confirm information regarding investigation. abilityone sourceamerica program sued multiple times recent years contractors allege bidding process get lucrative contracts "rigged," inside favoritism "steering" determines taxpayers' money awarded. several lawsuits also allege contractors get taxpayers' money operating legally hiring required ratio disabled workers. abilityone sourceamerica vigorously denied validity claims, sources tell cnn contracts across country operating illegally compliance, hiring required number disabled workers. one manager overseeing employees working abilityone contract told cnn, "the majority individuals hired severely disabled." "the jobs given individuals able-bodied, could go find employment anywhere else," manager said. sourceamerica abilityone declined cnn's repeated requests interviews. recent written statement, sourceamerica denied problems. "the allegations basis fact, advanced two disgruntled nonprofit agencies lawsuits pr campaign ... sourceamerica conducted continues conduct business utmost integrity complies federal state requirements," sourceamerica said. response cnn's questions memphis goodwill, abilityone said, "as federal agency, u.s. abilityone commission comment federal investigations." memphis goodwill industries president tony martini told cnn organization "working diligently alongside everyone involved help get information need. we're hopeful know soon." national representatives goodwill respond cnn's request comment.
maribel aber business correspondent cnn newsource "money talks" correspondent hln's daily news program "michaela." full bio maribel aber business correspondent cnn newsource "money talks" correspondent hln's daily news program "michaela." aber also appears regularly "morning express robin meade" "weekend express lynn smith." aber covers business, money, personal finance economy perspective affects families consumers. also reported breaking news cnn covered stories including china market crash 2015, sandy hook elementary school shooting facebook ipo 2012. began career national association securities dealers, inc. (now known finra) focus securities regulation. aber joined nasdaq 2000 associate director, global sales & member services. work led appointment chief staff vice chairman nasdaq 2001 later promotion vice president nasdaq marketsite, home nasdaq opening bell. aber responsible running seven-story tower broadcast studio. tenure nasdaq, partnered cnn "america votes 2004" live nasdaq marketsite negotiated partnership reuters group limited combined nasdaq tower reuters sign properties create world's largest outdoor digital display system, located times square. prior joining cnn newsource 2012, aber host producer "wall street week" entertainment host, correspondent producer broadway channel covering tony awards major red carpet events broadway. aber also freelance host aol, msn syndicated educational television show, brain fuel tv. aber began television career regular contributor money career issues "the better show," syndicated daytime television show produced meredith corporation, publisher "better homes gardens," "ladies home journal" "parents." aber graduated university virginia bachelor's degree foreign affairs minor german. earned juris doctor new york law school.
marian liu senior multiplatform editor, managing various platforms social media cnn digital worldwide, including cnnmoney, media, tech, travel entertainment, hong kong. full bio marian liu senior multiplatform editor, managing various platforms social media cnn digital worldwide, including cnnmoney, media, tech, travel entertainment, hong kong. currently, liu covers asian entertainment focused k-pop, j-pop, canto mando pop bollywood. prior joining cnn, covered entertainment editor, critic writer sun sentinel, seattle times, san jose mercury news source magazine. liu executive mba university washington bachelor arts integrative biology mass communications university california, berkeley. based hong kong.
sara ganim, cnn investigations updated 12:50 pm et, fri september 18, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)as two delaware teens recovering pesticide poisoning struggle eat, walk sit own, investigation went wrong highlights failures several levels, including lax oversight history corruption u.s. virgin islands government agency charge exterminators. methyl bromide restricted-use pesticide u.s. epa considered "highly toxic" two decades. inhalation methyl bromide, even short-term, cause severe lung damage, long-term inhalation lead "neurological effects." studies lab animals caused degenerative lesions nasal cavity effects testicles male animals. source: epa email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. epa long known toxic effects methyl bromide, 2005 banned except certain agricultural applications; ban took effect, several serious incidents involving terminix. (cnn)as two delaware teens recovering pesticide poisoning struggle eat, walk sit own, investigation went wrong highlights failures several levels, including lax oversight history corruption u.s. virgin islands government agency charge exterminators. methyl bromide restricted-use pesticide u.s. epa considered "highly toxic" two decades. inhalation methyl bromide, even short-term, cause severe lung damage, long-term inhalation lead "neurological effects." studies lab animals caused degenerative lesions nasal cavity effects testicles male animals. source: epa email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. epa long known toxic effects methyl bromide, 2005 banned except certain agricultural applications; ban took effect, several serious incidents involving terminix. teens parents fell gravely ill suffered seizures march vacation st. john. family exposed methyl bromide, restricted-use pesticide. recovery nerve damage slow agonizing whole family, it's worst boys. brothers medically induced comas weeks. conscious, family attorney james maron said, barely able move. six months horrifying incident, father, steve esmond, slowly getting better well, suffers severe tremors, struggles speak can't turn pages book, maron said. "neurologically, it's like torture chamber," maron said. esmond boys mentally "strong ox" "100% cognizant," trapped bodies badly damaged nerve agent, maron said. prior incident, boys athletic stars schools. older brother big prospects playing lacrosse already touring colleges. mother, teresa devine, less exposure toxic gas rest family made strongest recovery, spends days nights keeping vigil boys. "they're extreme fighters, that's they're hanging on," maron said. family vacation sirenusa resort st. john two employees local terminix fumigated villa march 18 methyl bromide, even though approved residential use. family became ill, environmental protection agency found traces lethal gas villa. exposure significant inside treated unit 6 weeks family fell ill, dangerous amounts methyl bromide still detected inside rental villa, according epa documents. methyl bromide incredibly toxic humans, said dr. reynold panettieri jr., deputy director center excellence environmental toxicology. "i would say prognosis, best, guarded," said panettieri, personally treated family. "as know victims ventilators they've improved. dose, even though appeared acute, (a period of) hours, damage nerves brain may render irreversibly damaged." delaware boys critical condition resort illness, possibly pesticide maron said terminix agreed enter mediation, done ken feinberg, negotiated settlements victims september 11 attacks. mediation begins september 28. went wrong new details emerging incident drastically sickened esmonds. six others islands mild symptoms methyl bromide exposure -- headache, fatigue, cough shortness breath -- botched march fumigation sirenusa resort. four emergency workers helped esmond family, according epa. cnn also learned day pesticide applied, exterminator tented taped treated area resort villa 6-millimeter plastic gas able penetrate. source familiar investigation speculated plastic could come loose, chemical perhaps traveled air-conditioning system. according documents received epa foia request, epa also speculated gap ceiling lower unit's air conditioning unit, speculating gas may traveled upper unit. even so, methyl bromide used residential building first place. pesticide manufacturer, chemtura, told cnn odor supposed added methyl bromide use, much like artificial odor added natural gas people detect it. family attorney maron said odor added instance. terminix comment part investigation. cnn previously reported methyl bromide used across islands different occasions terminix. pest control companies virgin islands found possession methyl bromide officials said checking records see whether used improperly. ken mapp, governor virgin islands, said was. "what companies appear clearly violation law, they'll held accountable it," mapp said. said learned complex fumigated methyl bromide 2013. methyl bromide highly restricted it's dangerous environment. it's legal use agriculture. pesticide experts tell cnn it's effective powderpost beetle, bores wood prevalent throughout islands. even though it's legal use residences, pesticide companies apparently fumigated anyway, according mapp. sources tell cnn two terminix employees job sirenusa day esmond family poisoned. one, terminix salesman, left company. job day, sources say, simply help carry supplies. pesticide probed resort illness delaware family jose rivera, applicator used methyl bromide, branch manager corporate-owned location, pest control business least decade. administrative leave. neither employee charged crime, neither would comment cnn case. workers fumigate methyl bromide supposed special training, they're supposed file paperwork epa, detailing plan apply it, every time methyl bromide purchased. key section epa documents left blank case, according family's attorney. epa says forms stay distributor, reports back epa much methyl bromide sold quarterly basis. epa says particular distributor "was knowledge collecting applicator certifications certainly reporting epa distributor." distributor responded cnn's requests comment. epa, terminix, local department planning natural resources declined specifically respond allegation, citing ongoing investigation. pattern problems u.s. virgin islands, allegations lax oversight department planning natural resources surfaced long esmond family fell ill. dpnr local environmental agency, receives funding regulated epa. dpnr riddled corruption years, epa inspector general recently found deficiencies department related management oversight several areas. may 2014, epa designated "high risk," saying agency "does meet management standards." addition, nearly $100,000 federal funding dpnr received train local pest control workers go toward training. meant classes whatsoever island st. thomas, terminix based, according former director usvi pesticide safety education program, joe williamson. pesticide applicators supposed retrained every year order keep certification. available classes island, pest control workers recertified without retrained, williamson said. case rivera, applied pesticide sirenusa. recertified 2014 without taking additional training -- though williamson says even classes available, rivera would trained use methyl bromide, it's supposed used indoors. epa said assured dpnr funds process allocated correctly. epa also said rivera's certification history review dpnr. latest problem dpnr. according department justice, three dpnr officials -- former commissioner two directors -- sentenced jail terms since 2008. year, former commissioner dean c. plaskett sentenced nine years receiving kickbacks awarding local government contracts. 2014, director pleaded guilty using position engage illegal drug trafficking head environmental enforcement dpnr. sentenced 70 months federal prison. mapp, took office governor territory january, told cnn misuse methyl bromide nothing governmental failures result bad decisions part pest control companies. "it occurred someone cutting corners, thought could enhance profit margin thought could get away it. apparently residence, someone getting away quite time," mapp said. williamson said epa bears responsibility well. "epa really needs take leadership this, look mistakes happened here. important thing quit allowing methyl bromide fumigants available anybody certification card," williamson said. epa officials tell cnn working proposals strengthen training requirements certifications people use methyl bromide. what's changed since incident, epa terminix done national inventories, checking improper methyl bromide use, sources said. epa also meeting every region nation case sent safety alert states territories, asking "increased vigilance distribution use methyl bromide ensure product applied residential settings." statement, terminix said: "all us continue family thoughts prayers. cooperating authorities conducting thorough investigation." company also said taken steps ensure doesn't happen again, including halting fumigation u.s. virgin islands, reinforcing policies employees speaking technicians specific products use they're applied.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. anderson cooper 360
manu raju jeremy herb, cnn updated 10:45 pm et, fri october 20, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)senate intelligence committee investigators spoken several russians attended june 2016 trump tower meeting donald trump jr., sign matter remains significant focus lawmakers looking potential coordination trump associates kremlin-linked operatives presidential campaign. cnn's pamela brown contributed report. washington (cnn)senate intelligence committee investigators spoken several russians attended june 2016 trump tower meeting donald trump jr., sign matter remains significant focus lawmakers looking potential coordination trump associates kremlin-linked operatives presidential campaign. cnn's pamela brown contributed report. sen. richard burr, chairman senate intelligence committee, told cnn panel interviewed russians meeting, trump jr. attended promised dirt clinton campaign informed russian government wanted father win presidency. paul manafort, trump campaign chairman, along president's son-in-law, jared kushner, also attended meeting. intelligence committee previously met kushner manafort, yet brought trump jr. burr said committee "sequencing" interviews speak everyone else "involved meeting know exactly want jr." burr, r-north carolina, would say russians, many, investigators spoken with. committee officials declined comment further. time, second senate panel, judiciary committee, met privately trump jr. last month, trying finalize plans bring president's son public hearing -- something one committee source said could happen soon month. eight people attended june 2016 meeting trump tower, including british music publicist rob goldstone, well four people present part russian contingent: russian lawyer natalia veselnitskaya, russian-american lobbyist rinat akhmetshin, translator anatoli samochornov ike kaveladze, works russian oligarch initiated meeting. cnn reported earlier month akhmetshin added morning meeting request veselnitskaya, wanted present knowledge magnitsky act -- us sanctions moscow wants lifted -- according email exchange veselnitskaya goldstone. veselnitskaya's talking points meeting obtained cnn show focus sanctions -- matter significant interest kremlin -- passing mention clinton campaign. emails leading meeting trump jr. goldstone paint different picture. "the crown prosecutor russia met father aras morning meeting offered provide trump campaign official documents information would incriminate hillary dealings russia would useful father," goldstone wrote. "i love it," trump jr. responded. representatives russians trump tower meeting either declined respond requests comment. trump jr. downplayed matter. president's son said veselnitskaya began meeting talking "individuals connected russia" funding clinton provided details support claims, bulk meeting focused magnitsky act. "to extent information concerning fitness, character qualifications presidential candidate, believed least hear out," trump jr. said statement senate judiciary committee. investigation close finished? june 2016 meeting one focus senate intelligence committee probe, lawmakers continue search links trump associates russians tied russian president vladimir putin. republicans panel, like idaho sen. jim risch, believe committee close reaching dead end issue collusion. "the whole russia thing excuse democrats losing election," trump said white house week, many past instances. "there absolutely collusion. it's stated collusion. ought get end think american public sick it." democrats say far investigate -- including circumstances around trump tower meeting. senators want bring kushner, along manafort, back capitol hill another round questioning. "the members committee even chance talk vast majority individuals, could tick names -- know names well i," virginia sen. mark warner, democratic vice chairman committee, said thursday. "we're going to, again, let facts take us truth leads." burr said committee making progress say agreed risch investigation point "diminishing returns." "the list folks talk smaller started," burr told cnn. "it'll finish. -- there's chunking people list see pattern final product looks like." added, "we responsibility check check everybody might information that's pertinent areas we're looking at. we're going stop we've seen them."
alex marquardt award-winning senior national correspondent based network's new york bureau. full bio alex marquardt award-winning senior national correspondent based network's new york bureau. since rejoining network may 2017, helped lead network's domestic international breaking news coverage las vegas massacre, historic hurricanes harvey irma london bridge attack. marquardt spent past decade foreign correspondent abc news based beirut, jerusalem moscow. time, front lines wars uprisings middle east, reported unfolding refugee migrant crisis covered wave terror attacks across europe. marquardt first american broadcast correspondent cairo egyptian revolution exploded, made many trips syria report war regime rebel sides, ground gaza 2012 2014 wars israel traveled across ukraine russia's military moved in. overseas career, marquardt "embed" reporter cnn 2008 presidential election. traveled covered number candidates, including then-senators obama, biden, clinton, well governors romney huckabee. marquardt emmy edward r. murrow awards, notably undercover investigation underage sex trafficking philippines. marquardt got journalism first nbc page later anchor channel one news. graduated georgetown university's school foreign service growing europe middle east.
scott bronstein gary tuchman, cnn special investigations unit updated 8:04 pm et, fri may 31, 2013 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. evidence pointed police one conclusion: priest killed beautiful 25-year-old schoolteacher. searchers found lifeless body former miss south texas, irene garza, face canal hometown mcallen. she'd disappeared day easter going sacred heart catholic church confession. autopsy determined garza raped coma, died suffocation. near garza's body investigators found items belonged church, including candelabra. one item, metallic kodak slide photo viewer, belonged 27-year-old priest assigned church: rev. john feit. say scandal rocked mcallen understatement. questioned police, feit failed lie detector tests. also suspicious 24 days killing, feit arrested attacking another young woman church town 10 miles mcallen. feit pleaded contest misdemeanor aggravated assault. judge found guilty fined $500 prison time. took place 1960. see timeline case now, half century later, feit lives pleasant neighborhood phoenix, leaving priesthood late '60s. sworn statement authorities interview cnn, feit denied killed garza. feit told police garza left rectory heard confession last time saw her, standing outside church. day, police officers law enforcement agencies dealt case say believe feit killed her. folks growing mcallen time, unthinkable catholic priest would commit crime. that's way garza's cousins remember it. "we accusing priest -- days priests infallible, " said lynda de la vina, 9 years old time. another cousin, noemi sigler, 10 garza killed. "it impossible priest deed. mean, thought it, would sacrilegious." feit likely suspect, said former texas ranger lt. rudy jaramillo, started investigating murder 2002 served rangers cold case unit. evidence, said, "suggests indicates that's it's pointing to." authorities time protected feit, said sigler. "i don't know whether respect church anger fear, idea," said. shortly killing, church transferred feit far away monastery. would moved locations time, three years killing, church transferred feit lady assumption monastery ava, missouri. sheltering feit "was protecting church somehow believing church takes care own," said de la vina. "it best could happened point. nothing else done." sigler describes view succinct terms: "a cover-up." assistant bishop brownsville, texas, catholic church diocese oversees mcallen told cnn garza's death happened long ago one diocese direct knowledge it. assistant said diocese would always cooperate every way investigation. de la vina sigler, killing opened young eyes world appear offer equal justice law. trying make sense seemed like chaos, de la vina became "little detective," trying figure really happened eavesdropping conversations looking clues. father local sheriff's deputy joined search five days town desperately looking garza. "i actually went dad one search parties ... afraid i'd find her." "he put whole heart soul trying find really liked parents, family," recalled. one day sigler says realized beloved cousin wasn't coming back. "maybe that's started journey find killed irene garza," said. next four decades, sigler made mission knock doors, interview witnesses catalog every piece evidence case. case got colder years eventually faded headlines. cousins kept pushing 2002, rangers jaramillo reinvigorated investigation. hopes solving case never higher. two surprise witnesses independently come forward -- separately claiming heard feit confess. one witness -- priest named joseph o'brien -- worked feit sacred heart, garza's family worshiped. "we knew dangerous, shipped monastery," o'brien told sigler recorded phone conversation obtained cnn. "so told also, sir, killed her?" asked sigler. "yes," o'brien answered recording. sigler could respond, "oh god." asked believed o'brien good, credible witness, mcallen police chief victor rodriguez responded, "absolutely." o'brien first shared story rodriguez, chief noticed, "the lifting ... heavy burden he'd carried long time," rodriguez said. witness come forward dale tacheny, served monk feit's spiritual counselor missouri monastery feit sent. tacheny told authorities taken 40 years come forward guilt become much keep quiet. bits pieces, tacheny told authorities -- also cnn exclusive interview -- feit told woman whose story sounded similar garza's. according tacheny, feit said heard confession young woman shortly easter. feit offered take woman rectory, tacheny said, feit sexually assaulted her, bound gagged her, fondled breasts, put something head. "that's did," said tacheny. former monk said feit told took garza separate location, living, hid there, bound, overnight. next day feit needed return church confessions. tacheny said feit told took garza, bound wrapped plastic "put bathtub ... leaving, saying, 'i can't breathe. can't breathe.'" tacheny said. "then later day -- easter sunday -- came back dead bathtub." tacheny said feit told dumped woman's body near canal. asked feit living monastery prison. "'the church protected me, people church, superiors, protected me,'" tacheny quoted feit saying. "i believe killed her," said tacheny. "i doubt said did." roadblock seemingly overwhelming testimony two independent witnesses, jaramillo ready make arrest. said even written warrant. first, wanted green light county district attorney. man, rene guerra, thrown roadblock front case, said cousins. guerra bring case grand jury years, despite blockbuster testimony o'brien tacheny. "they're credible," guerra said. worried winning conviction, guerra said wants slam-dunk conviction. guerra said he's protecting church. questioned o'brien's state mind. 70s time, o'brien, guerra said, senile. "i didn't trust mind," guerra said. "it wasn't didn't trust priest. far know good priest." guerra also doubted o'brien's credibility changed story. years earlier o'brien lied police. o'brien said withheld information alleging feit committed killing. jaramillo didn't think o'brien senile. fact, said thought o'brien "remarkable memory" interviewed 2002, agreed mcallen police chief rodriguez o'brien "very credible." o'brien told police felt bad lying years earlier. guerra also discounted tacheny's story. said wasn't believable jaramillo -- ex-texas ranger -- fed tacheny information didn't obtain feit. that's impossible, said george saidler, time san antonio police homicide detective. saidler said tacheny called april 2002 told whole story. phone call occurred months jaramillo says ever heard tacheny. saidler, deputy chief criminal investigations bexar county sheriff's department, said believed tacheny's story. "i convinced," said. eventually, 2004, grand jury hear case. shock garza family, feit wasn't called testify. neither new witnesses, tacheny o'brien. however, jurors receive transcripts tacheny o'brien's version events. year later, o'brien, age 77, died. grand jury voted indict feit. garza family crushed. 'i promised her' now, years later, jaramillo, sigler de la vina time assess battle feit charged. "i wish we'd won," jaramillo said thoughtfully. "i made goal try solve case," said jaramillo. "i wanted justice her." de la vina isn't giving up. said still believes one day feit face murder charges. sigler, clear grand jury going indict feit, acknowledged, "we started losing belief justice system." led trip sigler made cemetery garza buried. researching pushing case nearly two decades, ready call quits. standing garza's grave site feeling presence, hurt, sigler remembered, because, "i promised i'd never leave her. i'd never leave behind." suddenly beautiful white dove landed nearby looked straight her. sigler certain bird sign beautiful, young schoolteacher whose life cut short. "so told irene, 'ok, irene got message ... i'll keep on.'"
hannah lang, eli watkins madison park, cnn updated 3:29 et, fri september 15, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)harvard kennedy school rescinded invitation chelsea manning visiting fellow school fall, according statement dean, douglas w. elmendorf. honored 1st disinvited trans woman visiting @harvard fellow  chill marginalized voices @cia pressure  #wegotthis https://t.co/7vif3gasec good  #wegotthis https://t.co/ugbapmnahm cnn's rahwa asmerom, katishi maake jennifer rizzo contributed report. washington (cnn)harvard kennedy school rescinded invitation chelsea manning visiting fellow school fall, according statement dean, douglas w. elmendorf. honored 1st disinvited trans woman visiting @harvard fellow  chill marginalized voices @cia pressure  #wegotthis https://t.co/7vif3gasec good  #wegotthis https://t.co/ugbapmnahm cnn's rahwa asmerom, katishi maake jennifer rizzo contributed report. institute politics announced wednesday manning would one approximately 10 visiting fellows, school withdrew offer early friday morning following controversy. manning still invited spend day kennedy school participate forum students, elmendorf said statement designating visiting fellow "a mistake." said school hadn't intended honor "endorse words deeds, honor endorse fellow." "i see clearly many people view visiting fellow title honorific, weigh consideration offering invitations," stated. "i apologize many concerned people heard today recognizing upfront full implications original invitation." thursday, cia director mike pompeo canceled appearance harvard forum taking issue manning's inclusion upcoming class visiting fellows. pompeo, graduate harvard law school, said letter appearing event harvard's announcement manning, found guilty leaking classified information, would "betray" conscience trust people cia. "i believe shameful harvard place stamp approval upon treasonous actions," pompeo wrote. manning released prison may then-president barack obama commuted 35-year sentence -- decision met anger consider traitor giving information wikileaks, praise argued persecuted whistleblowing. response rescinded offer, manning tweeted "honored 1st disinvited trans woman visiting @harvard fellow." former cia deputy director michael morell likewise taken issue publicly harvard's decision. resigned senior fellow harvard university school's announcement. elmendorf's office confirmed cnn morell resigned role. letter obtained cbs news -- morell contributor network -- morell said could part organization "honors convicted felon leaker classified information." leaving role harvard's belfer center science international affairs, morell explained letter felt obligation defend sensitive national security information school's decision appoint manning fellow would "assist long-standing effort legitimize criminal path took prominence." efforts cnn reach morell unsuccessful. responding morell's resignation, manning tweeted "good" hashtag #wegotthis. morell, worked cia decades, also said fully supports manning's rights transgender woman right serve military, well right harvard's institute politics invite anyone choose fellowship program. pompeo wrote letter decision "nothing do" manning's gender identity. former white house press secretary sean spicer also announced visiting fellow year, along hillary clinton's 2016 presidential campaign manager current cnn political commentator robby mook kansas city mayor sly james jr., harvard said news release wednesday.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. connect world
sarah letrent digital producer cnn original series films. previously, writer/producer cnn digital's features team.
richard quest cnn's foremost international business correspondent host quest means business, airs monday friday 4pm et / 9pm bst cnn international. full bio richard quest cnn's foremost international business correspondent anchor quest means business, definitive word earn spend money. based new york, one instantly recognizable members cnn team. also presents quest express, new business show broadcast weekdays 12pm et / 5pm bst floor new york stock exchange. quest express offers quick-fire briefing latest market movements business stories, building bridge close european trading day, opening markets new york, start business day silicon valley. additionally, quest serves cnnmoney's editor-at-large files global daily newsletter - 'cnnmoney presents: quest means business' - timed open asia markets. quest means business, airs weekdays 4pm et / 9pm bst cnn international, destroys myth business boring, bridging gap hard economics entertaining television. ceos global finance ministers make point appearing qmb. guests show included world leaders david cameron petr necas czech republic; biggest names banking jamie dimon jp morgan chase robert zoellick, former president world bank; european policy makers including imf boss christine lagarde, former ec president jose manuel barroso, former imf chief dominique strauss-kahn; influential names corporate america including dreamworks ceo jeffrey katzenberg former ford ceo alan mulally. quest's dynamic distinctive style made unique figure field business broadcasting. regularly reported g20 meetings attends world economic forum davos, switzerland year. quest covered every major stock market financial crisis since black monday 1987 reported key financial centers globally including wall street, london, sao paolo, tokyo hong kong. addition, quest established airline aviation correspondent cnn. interviewed major airline executives including former delta ceo richard anderson, qatar airways ceo akbar al baker, airasia ceo tony fernandes emirates ceo tim clark. covered number breaking aviation stories like downing malaysia airlines flight mh17 ukraine, virgin galactic spaceshiptwo crash disappearance malaysia airlines flight mh370. quest author 'the vanishing flight mh370: true story hunt missing malaysian plane,' details unique perspective covering mh370 cnn. also presents monthly cnn business traveller show, definitive authority making business road - moving b company time. business travel specialist, quest become voice authority subjects like launch airbus a380. united nations world tourism organization (unwto) awarded quest 2013 unwto award lifetime achievement recognition work business journalist reporting tourism industry. political front, quest covered 2016 u.s. presidential election campaign series, 'american quest,' travelled across battleground state florida interviewing diverse range voters weeks leading election. quest also face cnn's coverage major uk events. last year led cnn's coverage 'brexit' vote, continued report impact historic vote making markets, economies businesses. 2012 guided international audience queen's diamond jubilee celebrations live banks river thames used expert knowledge british royal family front channel's coverage 2011 marriage prince william kate middleton, duke duchess cambridge. coverage breaking news, spanned two decades, seen report range stories from, death yasser arafat, lockerbie pan 103 crash death michael jackson. quest business; journalists guests varied, holiness, dalai lama actress joan collins founder playboy magazine, hugh hefner. prior joining cnn, worked bbc, north america business correspondent, based wall street 12 years. quest british, holds llb (hons) degree law leeds university, called bar.
holly yan, masoud popalzai catherine e. shoichet, cnn updated 4:13 pm et, thu june 5, 2014 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. dressed white striped shawl across shoulders, gaunt american looks black hawk chopper circling overhead. armed taliban men stand around him, one rocket-propelled grenade launcher ready. chopper lands, american led two men, one carrying white flag. given pat-down, loaded helicopter whisked away. new video released taliban showed final moments army sgt. bowe bergdahl's five years captivity, handed united states. debate circumstances surrounding bergdahl's release showed signs slowing wednesday, video revealed intriguing clues bergdahl, taliban captors american rescuers. narration video says transfer took place khost province, eastern afghanistan. "we number tribal elders us ... order build trust us side," voice video says. "we told warned mujahideen fighters khost province especially batai area attack them." 17-minute video also showed unusual sight: taliban members shaking hands men black hawk. pentagon said wednesday reason doubt video's authenticity. "but reviewing it," pentagon spokesman rear adm. john kirby said. "regardless, know transfer peaceful successful, focus remains getting sgt. bergdahl care needs." mike baker, former covert operations officer cia, said there's clear purpose behind video. "the taliban doesn't operate bubble. don't live cave. understand importance social media. understand importance marketing public relations," told cnn's brooke baldwin. "this scripted propaganda piece them. ... they're this, sense, show credibility, show strength warriors supporters, try use recruiting tool." bowe bergdahl: strong, well-rounded easy talk to, friends say surrounded mujahideen one point video, taliban members start chanting, "long live mujahideen afghanistan, long live mullah omar, leader taliban." mujahideen refers carry jihad. narrator's voice said armed fighters stationed throughout transfer area. "we waited area around 10 minutes helicopters arrived, 18 mujahideen fighters area," narrator said. indeed, video showed armed men perched high low nearby hillsides. "our arrangement helicopters ground, three people side would get helicopter three side, including captive, would move toward helicopter hand over." video words english, message superimposed bergdahl: "don'come back afghanistan" narrator video: 'he fine' video, narrator also gives opinion issue that's become focal point since bergdahl's release: soldier's health. "they first asked us health condition captive told us tell truth well, saw him, fine, told that," narrator says. since announcing bergdahl's release weekend, obama administration officials repeatedly said fast-tracked operation concerns health safety, appeared jeopardy. recent intelligence, addition two proof-of-life videos bergdahl released recent months, led growing concern health safety, senior defense official said wednesday. chris voss, fbi's former lead international hostage negotiator, said might exactly bergdahl's captors wanted. "you expect hostage-takers make look like hostage bad shape drive better bargain, clearly looks that's here," told cnn's "the lead jake tapper" wednesday. deserter hero? national security adviser susan rice said bergdahl served honor distinction. there's growing chorus criticism served him, describing deserter. "i believe totally deserted fellow soldiers, leadership wanted best country," said former army staff sgt. justin gerleve, bergdahl's squad leader. soldiers involved operations find bergdahl said least six soldiers killed searching him. asked point, defense secretary chuck hagel told reporters wednesday know specific circumstances details soldiers dying result efforts find bergdahl. gerleve told "the lead" believes bergdahl least partly blame soldiers' deaths. "i can't really say blame bergdahl fullest extent, wouldn't deserted us, soldiers well could different place different time," said. army fact-finding investigation conducted months bergdahl's 2009 disappearance concluded left outpost deliberately free will, according u.s. military official briefed report. official spoke cnn tuesday condition anonymity due sensitive nature information. definitive finding bergdahl deserted would require knowing intent -- something army officials couldn't without talking soldier. wednesday, u.s. official said commanders referred bergdahl "good soldier" initial fact-finding report, fellow soldiers said he'd left post occasions. official, briefed investigation, said report said bergdahl mailed computer items home disappearance, motivation unclear. hagel said wednesday it's "unfair" bergdahl family presume anything motivations leaving base. reiterated army conduct review case. hagel spoke bergdahl's family via telephone wednesday, senior defense official told reporters. defense secretary reassured bergdahl would continue getting support regard medical care reintegration, department focused son's health, official said. bergdahl remain u.s. army medical center germany completes treatment, u.s. defense official told cnn. that, bergdahl return united states go san antonio military base, official said. debate bergdahl showed sign slowing wednesday, hometown hailey, idaho, canceled "bowe back" event planned celebrate return "in interest public safety." organizers, city said, expected large number supporters protesters increase attendance. "hailey, town 8,000, infrastructure support event size could become," city said. controversial swap bergdahl's captors handed united states exchange release five prisoners held guantanamo bay, cuba. gitmo detainees swapped bergdahl: they? democrats republicans criticized deal, arguing puts american lives risk releasing terrorists accusing obama breaking law notifying congress 30 days advance. administration officials said consulted justice department acted legally. republican lawmakers said they're buying argument, want proof bergdahl's health really jeopardy. "this american going home family," sen. marco rubio told cnn's "the situation room" heading classified senate briefing bergdahl wednesday. "these five members taliban going back battlefield." afterward, rubio several republicans told reporters briefing done nothing stem skepticism. "i remain increasingly convinced president set precedent encourage enemies united states target american men women uniform," said. rep. debbie wasserman schultz, chairwoman democratic national committee, said criticism lawmakers who'd long pushing obama help bring bergdahl home "disingenuous." "we intelligence, everything understand ... last, best opportunity, potentially death's door. looking grainy video way us determine that. everything understand, last best opportunity," said. john bellinger, former state department legal adviser president george w. bush's administration, told cnn prisoner swap deal "defensible." "this one tough national security situations presidents face," said, "where options bad." clinton wanted tougher deal taliban bergdahl? bergdahl swap legal? depends ask bowe bergdahl: deserter hero?
tony marco, cnn updated 12:07 et, fri october 20, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)a federal judge thursday rejected joe arpaio's request erase criminal contempt conviction record, saying presidential pardon former sheriff didn't change facts case. cnn's darran simon tal kopan contributed report. (cnn)a federal judge thursday rejected joe arpaio's request erase criminal contempt conviction record, saying presidential pardon former sheriff didn't change facts case. cnn's darran simon tal kopan contributed report. arpaio, former top lawman maricopa county, arizona, two decades, spared jail sentence pardoned president donald trump august convicted criminal contempt. 85-year-old accused violating court order 2007 racial profiling case continuing patrols targeting immigrants. former sheriff claimed court wasn't clear didn't intend violate it. soon president's pardon, arpaio's attorneys filed motion seeking erase record conviction, u.s. district court judge susan bolton denied request. related: ex-sheriff joe arpaio's fate criminal contempt trial rests judge "the power pardon executive prerogative mercy, judicial recordkeeping," bolton wrote document. "to vacate rulings case would run afoul important distinction." "the pardon undoubtedly spared defendant punishment might otherwise imposed. not, however, 'revise historical facts' case," wrote. bolton handed guilty verdict former sheriff's criminal contempt case july. arpaio, lost bid seventh term 2016, faced six months jail. sentencing set october 5. jack wilenchik, one arpaio's attorneys, said plan appeal bolton's order. "the sheriff views form resistance president's pardon, view resistance law," wilenchik told cnn late thursday. wilenchik explained legal precedence says judge vacate rulings case pardoned. "we think law clear think interesting see government decides since already agreed us case," said. former sheriff vocal proponent trump's candidacy, used national platform advocate trump's similarly aggressive stance deportations border security. president's pardon drew outcry civil rights groups, accused former sheriff violating constitution crackdown illegal immigration.
christina macfarlane sports correspondent anchor cnn international, based london bureau. full bio christina macfarlane sports correspondent anchor cnn international, based london bureau. since joining cnn 2010, christina covered numerous major live sports events sports news stories, including 2016 olympics rio de janeiro, 2012 olympics london leicester city's momentous premier league win. also presents two monthly feature shows network: cnn's alpine edge cnn world rugby. christina plays key role cnn's coverage tennis often reported wimbledon french open. interviewed winners serena williams, novak djokovic, rafa nadal andy murray. also reported 2015 rugby world cup football's european championships 2012 2014. becoming correspondent christina producer cnn's living golf feature show. christina started career production, working european pga tour european tour productions sky sports part live broadcast operation. master's degree broadcast journalism city university. christina lifelong passion sport qualified ski-instructor. born surrey, resides london.
eric bradner, barbara starr ed lavandera, cnn updated 8:52 pm et, thu march 26, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)house speaker john boehner said army sgt. bowe bergdahl "innocent proven guilty" u.s. military charged desertion misbehavior enemy, emphasized exclusive interview cnn's dana bash concerned circumstances release. cnn's ted barrett alexandra jaffe contributed report. washington (cnn)house speaker john boehner said army sgt. bowe bergdahl "innocent proven guilty" u.s. military charged desertion misbehavior enemy, emphasized exclusive interview cnn's dana bash concerned circumstances release. cnn's ted barrett alexandra jaffe contributed report. bergdahl's attorney also released statement wednesday, outlining defense soldier containing two-page letter bergdahl describing torture endured, included months spent chained bed years spent chained fours locked cage. shortly charges announced, bergdahl's attorneys released lengthy statement includes letter sent milley earlier month outlining defense soldier. "in light nearly five years harsh captivity sgt. bergdahl endured, purpose leaving unit, behavior prisoner, would unduly harsh impose lifetime stigma court-martial conviction honorable discharge deny veterans benefits," attorney eugene r. fidell writes letter. statement includes two-page accounting bergdahl time captivity, recounts months spent chained bed, years spent chained fours locked cage. read statement bergdahl's letter bergdahl said years body health declined due malnourishment, sores wrists ankles shackles grew infected. "my body started steady decline constant internal sickness would last final year," said. bergdahl frequently beaten, times copper wire thick rubber hose, forced watch taliban videos, said. concept time, repeatedly told would killed would never see family. "i kept constant isolation entire five years, little understanding time, periods constant darkness, periods constant light, periods completely random flickering light absolutely understanding anything happening beyond door held behind," wrote. bergdahl tried dozen times escape, wrote. interview bash, boehner said "like american, you're innocent proven guilty." "and charges coming. trial," boehner said interview taped wednesday air sunday cnn's "state union." boehner said "more troubling part" bergdahl saga fact u.s. government traded five taliban fighters bergdahl's release, recent reports indicate one returned battlefield. expressed concerns detainees held u.s. military prison guantanamo bay, president barack obama working close, "ending back battlefield threatening americans abroad." obama "violated law" failing alert congress prisoner swap occurred, boehner added. "and still believe that's troubling part this," said. "we've made clear past won't negotiate terrorists, yet did." military officials announced wednesday afternoon would charge bergdahl one count desertion misbehavior enemy. bergdahl left post afghanistan captured held captive five years. that, faces charges carry maximum penalty life military prison, could also forfeit pay stripped rank, army col. daniel king said announced charges. bergdahl faces military procedure similar grand jury whether charges appropriate, king said. then, could face court martial proceedings. decision comes nearly year bergdahl returned united states part prisoner exchange since army began formal investigation disappearance unit eastern afghanistan june 2009. army concluded investigation circumstances bergdahl's capture december. now, hands gen. mark milley, head u.s. army forces command, made decision charge bergdahl. several u.s. military officials cnn spoken suggested privately process took longer expected. read: bowe bergdahl fast facts ahead wednesday's announcement, officials said milley choices. though sense bergdahl must held accountable actions, little appetite lengthy term military confinement given five years bergdahl held taliban. 28, bergdahl taken haqqani terrorist network. circumstances bergdahl's departure base willingly left clear. king said couldn't offer details wednesday, they're treated evidence upcoming proceedings bergdahl. senate armed services committee chairman john mccain, r-arizona, called charges "important step" wednesday. "this important step military justice process towards determining accountability sgt. bowe bergdahl," said statement. "i confident department army continue ensure process conducted utmost integrity uniform code military justice." read: officials: detainee swapped bergdahl suspected militant activities sen. lindsey graham, r-south carolina, meanwhile, lambasted "unevenness" obama's swap five taliban prisoners bergdahl. "i wouldn't done trade medal honor winner," told cnn. "no military member expect country turn five taliban commanders get release. nobody expect that. it's nature service drives thinking it's illogical nature swap." members bergdahl's platoon criticized him, labeling bergdahl deserter. "i pissed then, even everything going on," former sgt. matt vierkant, member bergdahl's platoon went missing june 30, 2009, told cnn last year. "bowe bergdahl deserted time war, fellow americans lost lives searching him." bergdahl freed may president barack obama agreed swap five taliban prisoners detained guantanamo bay secure bergdahl's freedom, sending detainees qatar. obama announced bergdahl's release fanfare white house rose garden, flanked army sergeant's parents, bob jani bergdahl. hometown hailey, idaho, planned parade celebrate bergdahl's homecoming later canceled celebration amid security concerns stemming unanswered questions surrounding disappearance resulting controversy release. read: bowe bergdahl returns home -- long road ahead returning united states, bergdahl active duty administrative job fort sam houston san antonio, texas. there, army assigned bergdahl "sponsor" help adjust life new post. upon returning, bergdahl refused meet parents -- months later, army officials said communicating still met face face. five figures united states exchanged secure bergdahl's release khair ulla said wali khairkhwa, mullah mohammad fazl, mullah norullah nori, abdul haq wasiq mohammad nabi omari. mostly mid- high-level officials taliban regime detained early war afghanistan positions within taliban, ties al qaeda. detainee swap bergdahl become increasingly controversial recent weeks report published office director national intelligence james clapper said one 17 intelligence agencies operating umbrella judged prisoner released exchange since contacted taliban.
christina ginn, cnn updated 3:28 pm et, mon september 7, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)an american held captive houthi rebels yemen identified scott darden. (cnn)an american held captive houthi rebels yemen identified scott darden. source close family direct knowledge case identified darden, 45, one captives. source tells cnn darden taken hostage march year houthi rebels, far asked ransom. darden captured working new-orleans based company transoceanic development, according unnamed source. darden born raised atlanta, georgia, living abroad last couple years. family working directly state department darden's company. "we aware reports several u.s. citizens detained yemen. due privacy considerations, personal details information share. protection u.s. citizens overseas one department state's highest priorities. strive assist u.s. citizens detained abroad whenever possible," u.s. state department said. transoceanic development issues statement monday, saying, "we working tirelessly since march governments organizations globally secure release scott darden, yemen coordinating warehousing delivery humanitarian aid part job international logistics. continue call houthis immediately release scott reunited family."
jessica schneider justice correspondent based washington, d.c. full bio jessica schneider justice correspondent based washington, d.c. addition award-winning journalist, also attorney. schneider one first ground cover orlando nightclub shooting, reported extensively cincinnati zoo's gorilla incident, potential legal implications. prior joining cnn, schneider worked reporter wcbs-tv new york city covered legal issues law enforcement. schneider one block boston marathon finish line 2013, celebrating brother's completion race, bombs went off. reported scene week, went back boston one-year anniversary attack. schneider's legal expertise forefront wcbs' continuing coverage etan patz murder trial new york city; live tweeted courtroom proceedings cameras weren't allowed, walked viewers legal wranglings 17-day jury deliberation ended mistrial. schneider honored emmy award continuing coverage return home new jersey initiative governor chris christie. 9 months, course 6 separate stories, schneider interviewed anxious parents disabled adults, questioned confronted governor christie appointees, provided detailed analysis program would forced hundreds disabled people group homes new jersey, removing facilities around country lived decades. result media coverage, relentless push parents, governor christie backed july 2015, canceling return home new jersey program. schneider worked two years litigation attorney two new york city law firms, focusing defense product liability, construction catastrophic injury matters new york new jersey. schneider attended university connecticut school law articles editor connecticut journal international law, one 40 law students chosen work u.s. securities exchange commission washington, d.c., represented criminal defendants connecticut courts part criminal clinic uconn law. upon graduating honors 2010, schneider took passed new york new jersey bar exams, admitted practice law states well federal courts. schneider began career video journalist time warner cable channel capital news 9, ynn/time warner cable news, worked amsterdam, ny bureau chief political reporter. schneider attended law school working weekend morning anchor reporter wfsb-tv hartford, connecticut. schneider originally manchester, connecticut credits high school news program, mhs tv news, inspiring fueling passion journalism. schneider graduated boston university 2002 degrees political science broadcast journalism, honored chosen give commencement address college communication. follow jessica twitter: @schneidercnn
steven jiang cnn beijing bureau's senior producer. full bio english-chinese bilingual journalist, steven worked asia united states almost two decades. based china, steven cnn's senior tv producer network's beijing bureau. profile mother fighting gay rights china another report china's crackdown dissent received merit awards 15th human rights press awards hong kong 2011. addition regular reporting around china, steven covered japan's worst nuclear crisis history arab spring unrest middle east cnn team received prestigious peabody award. recently, managed network's coverage missing malaysian airliner china sunken passenger ferry south korea. returning cnn 2010, steven covered asia - producer correspondent - cbs news, nbc news, france24 singapore's channel newsasia. 1999 2005, spent nearly six years producing cnn atlanta beijing. steven moved united states china teenager. graduated honors northwestern university majors journalism international studies.
aimee lewis, cnn updated 10:46 et, thu october 26, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)it incident led widespread condemnation. questa non  una curva, questo non  calcio, questo non  sport. fuori gli antisemiti dagli stadi. pic.twitter.com/q1ujndq7cl (cnn)it incident led widespread condemnation. questa non  una curva, questo non  calcio, questo non  sport. fuori gli antisemiti dagli stadi. pic.twitter.com/q1ujndq7cl sunday, leading football match europe, fans italian club lazio posted stickers around rome's stadio olimpico depicting holocaust victim anne frank wearing shirt city rivals roma alongside anti-semitic slogans. head rome's jewish community, ruth dureghello, tweeted picture stickers, writing: "this isn't terraces, isn't soccer, isn't sport. kick anti-semitism stadiums." italian president sergio mattarella widely reported called case "alarming country," lazio players wear image frank shirts warm-up wednesday's serie match bologna. statement club website, lazio president claudio lotito said move showed team's commitment fighting "all forms racism anti-semitism." according italian newspaper gazzetta dello sport, lotito also promised club would organize annual trip 200 young fans auschwitz, one million people murdered nazi concentration camp. italian police investigating sunday's incident, using stadium's surveillance cameras, identified 15 people, two minors. possibly facing charges incitement racial hatred. passage diary read frank german-born jewish teenager kept diary time hiding nazi-occupied amsterdam killed bergen-belsen concentration camp 1945. "we shocked anti-jewish expressions, extremely painful experienced consequences persecution jews," said statement published anne frank website. "fighting football-related anti-semitism part educational activities. pleased see others, including italian football clubs, expressed indignation action." response sunday's incident rome, italian football federation (figc) announced plans hold minute's silence serie a, b c matches week passage frank's diary read loudspeakers. excerpt read says: "i see world slowly transformed wilderness; hear approaching thunder that, one day, destroy us too. "i feel suffering millions. yet, look sky, somehow feel everything change better, cruelty shall end, peace tranquility return more." statement, figc said move part commitment "for civil society young people particular brought correct values." visit cnn.com/sport news videos 'new low italian football' hardcore lazio fans, called "ultras," history anti-semitic behavior, racism still problem italian football. april, ghana midfielder sulley muntari left pitch top-flight italian game booked complaining abused section fans. academic alberto testa, spent time lazio roma ultras book "football, fascism fandom: ultras italian football," described sunday's incident new low history italian football. also doubted lazio's gesture would help eradicate racism anti-semitism country, questioning september 2017 italy's lower house parliament approved bill aimed curbing fascist propaganda. read: muntari would support player boycott read: anti-racism campaigner criticizes italian authorities "it's big disease, racism italian society," testa told cnn sport. "they cultural problems problems connected society structured. complex issue speak say stadium italy -- let's forget infiltration right problem europe -- reflects happens society. "if politicians don't condemn racism, media continue use 'n-word' treat episode banter never resolve problem. "yes, lazio reacted strongly. it's good did. need send strong signal thing acceptable. [the fans responsible] need banned life stadium. "anne frank symbol tragedy holocaust also kid. new low history italian football racism." according report published april, number anti-semitic incidents us first three months year 86% higher period last year. however, cases violence harassment jews ticked significantly us, worldwide, according report kantor center. read: small swedish club attracting global kurdish following cases violence jews worldwide dipped 12% last year, 410 incidents 2015 361 2016, report says.
stephanie elam correspondent cnn based los angeles. elam made return network 2013 spending year knbc los angeles. full bio stephanie elam correspondent cnn based los angeles. elam made return network 2013 spending year knbc los angeles. elam recently covered shooting unarmed teenager michael brown ferguson, mo, donald sterling scandal los angeles clippers owner's racist remarks, weather related emergencies including ef5 tornado killed 15 adults 9 children devastating town moore, oklahoma; well numerous fires california, flooding arizona, sub-zero temperatures minnesota. one first reporters scene shooting los international airport stranded thousands travelers took life tsa agent gerardo hernandez, marking first on-duty death since security organization created 2001. additionally, elam responsible reporting 19 firefighters killed wildfire prescott, arizona, informing world largest loss first responders single event since september 11, 2001. prior rejoining cnn, elam served weekend evening anchor general assignment reporter knbc. tenure knbc, reporting centered around emergency awareness, empowering southern californians information earthquake ready, water safe informed money matters. covered release john smith, man jailed 18 years crime commit; 2012 golden globes red carpet; anchored knbc's breaking news coverage seal beach murders. knbc, elam business news correspondent cnn based new york, also reported hln cnn international. elam covered myriad stories worst financial period decades death michael jackson time cnn 2003 2011. elam's career began new york copy editor dow jones newswires joining bridge news helped coordinate seamless 24-hour news coverage among organizations newsrooms worldwide. working bridge news, made transition broadcast news began covering corporate earnings pbs program nightly business report webfn. full-time reporter new york webfn, anchored market close, one-hour webfn program tracked stock market last hour trading first business, weekly syndicated business program elam co-hosted black enterprise report, nationally syndicated program focused business, career financial education 2005 2007. elam earned bachelor arts degree broadcast journalism howard university.
riddell anchor correspondent world sport. full bio riddell award-winning anchor correspondent world sport, working cnn's world headquarters atlanta. currently host world sport cnn international one network's versatile anchors, also presented long-running feature show living golf well news programs world news cnn today. 2016 riddell reported hillsborough football disaster -- long campaign truth justice -- cnn documentary, world sports presents: they'll never walk alone. powerful film recently recognized new york festivals silver medal. riddell also covered 2016 summer olympics rio de janeiro deadly chapecoense plane crash colombia. brazil team returned competition earlier year. since joining cnn 2002, riddell filed stories dozens countries, speaking many world's top sports names profiling stories diverse match-fixing emergence esports. covered four golf majors ryder cup, addition wimbledon, rugby world cup, tour de france, champions league finals spain's 2010 world cup victory madrid. 2013 riddell fronted cnn documentary world sports presents: branded rebel, examines 30th anniversary cricket's highly controversial "rebel tours", specifically west indies unauthorized tour apartheid-era south africa 1983. featuring powerful interviews cricketers - punished lifetime bans - 'branded rebel' foreign press association's 'sports story year' award 2013 well golden eagle cine. addition covering sports, riddell also covered many news stories including 2010 royal wedding g20 summit london. studio, covered haiti earthquake, mumbai terror attacks, disputed iranian election death michael jackson. profiled variety personalities astronauts prime ministers, holocaust survivors world's tallest man. named finalist 'best sports anchor' new york festivals 2016, riddell often writes cnn.com occasionally pens columns publications around world. award-winning filmmaker keen photographer, whose pictures often seen alongside reports cnn.com. prior joining cnn, riddell worked british regional television; starting calendar news yorkshire television (ytv) leeds, london news network (lnn), worked presenter reporter london tonight program. 1998, riddell invited meet queen buckingham palace, identified one nation's young achievers independent television commission. run london new york marathons. riddell bachelors degree honours public media/communication cultural studies leeds university.
ryan browne updated 5:42 pm et, thu september 28, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)the us military conducted airstrikes isis fighters libya tuesday, second time less week second time us struck targets north african country since donald trump became president. (cnn)the us military conducted airstrikes isis fighters libya tuesday, second time less week second time us struck targets north african country since donald trump became president. "us forces conducted two precision airstrikes libya isis militants," us africa command, oversees us troops region, said statement issued thursday. africa command added strikes killed "several isis militants" carried "in coordination libyan government national accord," internationally recognized government based tripoli. strike occurred approximately 100 miles southeast sirte, one-time isis stronghold libya, according africa command. tuesday's strikes carried unmanned aircraft killed fewer 10 isis fighters, two us defense officials told cnn. operation follows series six precision airstrikes carried isis desert camp friday. strikes killed 17 isis militants destroyed three vehicles camp, located 150 miles southeast sirte, africa command told cnn sunday statement. two missions carried close proximity one another suggests us officials become increasingly concerned terror group regaining strength north african country. isis presence libya much reduced following nearly five-month long us air campaign terror group final stretch obama administration ousted sirte, small groups isis fighters begun reconstitute remote desert areas, taking advantage lingering instability resulting libyan civil war. "isis al-qaeda taken advantage ungoverned spaces libya establish sanctuaries plotting, inspiring directing terror attacks; recruiting facilitating movement foreign terrorist fighters; raising moving funds support operations," africa command said thursday.
jareen imam amanda barnett, cnn updated 11:18 et, wed march 2, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)nasa astronaut scott kelly back earth. 340 days space, @stationcdrkelly back earth #yearinspace mission. https://t.co/kx5g7yynyg https://t.co/dhcfp1m6tz undocking complete 8:02pm et! @stationcdrkelly way home #yearinspace pic.twitter.com/qapqva0jsu rise shine! last #sunrise space gotta go! 1 5. #goodmorning @space_station! #yearinspace pic.twitter.com/f1mfo5mwjq #countdown we're wakeup. #earth. i'm coming tomorrow! #goodnight @space_station! #yearinspace pic.twitter.com/kle2755xyg cnn's joshua berlinger ashley strickland contributed report. (cnn)nasa astronaut scott kelly back earth. 340 days space, @stationcdrkelly back earth #yearinspace mission. https://t.co/kx5g7yynyg https://t.co/dhcfp1m6tz undocking complete 8:02pm et! @stationcdrkelly way home #yearinspace pic.twitter.com/qapqva0jsu rise shine! last #sunrise space gotta go! 1 5. #goodmorning @space_station! #yearinspace pic.twitter.com/f1mfo5mwjq #countdown we're wakeup. #earth. i'm coming tomorrow! #goodnight @space_station! #yearinspace pic.twitter.com/kle2755xyg cnn's joshua berlinger ashley strickland contributed report. kelly russian cosmonauts mikhail kornienko sergey volkov landed late tuesday night kazakhstan desert, nasa russian mission control said. kelly could seen pumping fist giving thumbs hoisted russian soyuz spacecraft brought trio back. three underwent field tests immediately leaving spacecraft. kelly completed nearly yearlong mission international space station, longest u.s. astronaut space. prolific social media user posted photo sunrise tuesday -- last one watched space. spending 340 days space could affect person's vision bones, kelly said last week physically, feels pretty good. "i could go another 100 days 100 years," astronaut said last briefing reporters orbit. long stay also lonely. "the hardest part isolated people ground important you," said. space veteran said witnessed amazing scenes earth mission, like spotting northern lights, passing bahamas watching huge storms like hurricane patricia. view space he's also gained perspective earth's climate he's orbiting planet. "i feel like environmentalist since i've here," said. "there parts earth covered pollution time. saw weather unexpected. storms bigger we've seen past. human effect. natural phenomenon." previous interview cnn, kelly said earth's atmosphere "looks very, fragile" space station. opportunities solve earth's environmental problems, kelly said thursday. "if dream it, make so," said. kelly lands, flown houston's ellington field go battery physical scientific tests. afterward, he's looking forward jumping pool, said. kelly isn't bringing back souvenirs -- fourth mission space, -- he's looking forward returning personal items lands. one biggest hopes year space mission's legacy helps nasa quest take astronauts farther away earth longer space flights -- necessity traveling mars future. "the space station magical place, incredible science facility. hope people opportunity future," said. 'feel like i've lived whole life here' told cnn's dr. sanjay gupta last week feels like he's spent whole life station leaving going tough. "i'll probably never see again," kelly told gupta. "i've flown space four times now, it's going hard respect, certainly look forward going back earth. i've really long time sometimes, think it, feel like i've lived whole life here." year ago, launched, kelly, 51, joked would taller twin brother, former astronaut mark kelly (the husband former rep. gabrielle giffords), returns, get bit taller space. least briefly. "you grow you're long time," kelly said last year. "unfortunately doesn't last." really get taller brother? though he's longer astronaut, mark kelly volunteered take part nasa's "twins study" brother. nasa wants see identical twins measure year two different environments -- scott space mark earth. staying contact scott kelly also said would spend lot time talking people earth, messaging social media -- did. shared many pictures twitter taken perch 200 miles earth. (by way, see space station fly know look.) kelly also promised keep personal journal experience space station said might share us. "i plan completely honest it," said launch, -- "who knows, maybe crazy thoughts i'll end wouldn't want share." kelly also experiments. lots lots experiments. one-year crewmate, russian cosmonaut mikhail kornienko, conducted studies help nasa better understand happens human body space: eyes, brain, bones, muscles -- change weightless environment. nasa needs know lot changes body send people mars long spaceflights. riding home russians kelly began mission space station march 27, 2015, riding russian rocket launched baikonur cosmodrome kazakhstan. coming home much way. mission ends, kelly spent 340 consecutive days space station total 520 days space counting time previous trips. records u.s. astronauts, russia. 1987 1995, four cosmonauts spent year space. kornienko also coming back tuesday cosmonaut sergey volkov flight -- though spend year space station. kelly's mission won't end lands. nasa spend years analyzing tests conducted board.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. new day
jim murphy vice president programming cnn. previously served vice president morning programming cnn senior executive producer early start new day. full bio jim murphy vice president programming cnn. previously served vice president morning programming cnn senior executive producer early start new day. started broadcast journalism intern wpix-tv new york high school senior worked television ever since. produced flagship newscasts wcbs wabc new york. moving network news served executive producer cbs morning cbs evening news senior executive producer good morning america. recipient multiple emmy, murrow journalism awards.
david fitzpatrick drew griffin, cnn investigations updated 9:53 pm et, mon november 17, 2014 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. boy's stories heartbreaking: "my dad drinks hits ... mom chose drugs ... home reservation isn't safe place be," wrote josh little bear. request seems reasonable -- send dollars help st. joseph's indian school keep "kids like safe ... don't live way anymore." story, begging help, part massive national marketing campaign involving 30 million pieces mail year. it's successful one, raising $50 million last year. josh little bear doesn't exist. it's pseudonym protect child. story fabrication, compiling events may may happened paint broad picture native american leaders say exist. officials st. joseph's indian school -- 200-person boarding school chamberlain, south dakota, that's affiliated roman catholic charity based wisconsin -- say send waves mailings three four times year. latest, christmas-oriented mailer, sent early november, according school's director communications. packets include calendars, personalized return address stickers, notepads, elaborate stickers so-called "dreamcatcher," native american handicraft tradition gives owners good dreams. christmas appeal introduced "emily high elk." year ago family brought school, letter says, "(y)ou could see hopelessness felt dark brown eyes." now, letter goes on, "her big bright smile reveals life changed." again, "emily high elk," pseudonym. girl whose life described letter exist. according financial statements, st. joseph's indian school raised $51 million last year millions americans donated mailings. cnn began receiving complaints mailings like two years ago. asked josh little bear's letter, kory christianson, director development, wrote us student. "the name 'josh little bear' fictitious," wrote, "but unfortunately, story not." letter, added, "is true story real challenging situations far many children face native american community, families found every sphere society." said wasn't "intention disparage way native american community." native americans say deliberate disparagement it's marketing technique. half-hour drive away st. joseph's crow creek lakota sioux reservation central south dakota, vice chairman, leonard pease, scoffed fundraising letter. "that's get money," told cnn. "to me, make indians look bad." michael roberts, president first nations development institute aims strengthen support native communities, went further. termed fundraising letter admission child nonexistent "poverty porn." "they raising money name indians, using worst poverty porn indian country raise money social ills," said roberts, whose colorado-based group represents six native american nonprofit organizations. seems money raised used right reasons, far cnn could see. given tour school allowed film. complex, banks missouri river, looks like nice place children seemed happy, well-fed well-housed. tried unsuccessfully interview leadership st. joseph's. communications director, jona ohm, first invited us meet school president small museum operated school. president, mike tyrell, acknowledged mailings "push edge" marketing asking "is legitimate question." ohm told us stop. "you don't permission record way, shape form," said. according financial statement 2013, st. joseph's abundant assets. cash hand listed $122 million june 2013, increase $18.5 million previous year.
tim stanley updated 6:55 et, wed september 20, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. timothy stanley historian columnist britain's daily telegraph. author "citizen hollywood: collaboration la dc revolutionized american politics." opinions expressed commentary his. (cnn)the latest twist investigation links trump campaign russia paul manafort, former head campaign, wiretapped secret court orders election -- including working trump. revelation less stops there. join us twitter facebook timothy stanley historian columnist britain's daily telegraph. author "citizen hollywood: collaboration la dc revolutionized american politics." opinions expressed commentary his. (cnn)the latest twist investigation links trump campaign russia paul manafort, former head campaign, wiretapped secret court orders election -- including working trump. revelation less stops there. join us twitter facebook don't know investigators found, involved trump personally. according cnn, two sources caution evidence thus far "inconclusive." trump still cause concern. president walking political tightrope. needs keep moderate republications base side. otherwise, democrats could assume majority 2018 unleash full fury left white house. two narratives trump presidency distinct inseparable. first, fallout election campaign. democrats looking way invalidate result, it's undeniable links existed individuals trump's team russia. donald trump jr. meeting several russian lawyers, least one alleged connections kremlin, premise political dirt hillary clinton would provided. former national security adviser mike flynn resign administration failed disclose contacts russian ambassador. narrative trump's attempt drag us government own, unique direction. often put odds party. president could justified furious earlier year spent political capital reforming health care effort initially fail congress (though may get second chance month). congressional gop leadership might unhappy president's executive-level efforts everything banning transgendered personnel military selective ban migration muslim-dominated countries. trump's attempt cut deal congressional democrats immigration complicates matters further. compromise might actually lot congressional republicans favor, may anger trump's base doesn't include funding mexican border wall -- key election promise put white house. critics say hillary clinton doesn't understand lost 2016 election, trump's supporters -- including ann coulter -- suspect doesn't understand it. here's thing: trump alienate moderate republicans base, fails get substantial reform congress consequence, there's chance democrats well 2018 midterm elections. do, that'll turn attention squarely onto ethics accusations. why? majority parties (with majority votes) subpoena powers house senate -- democrats take control one them, really start create havoc. serious impeachment effort could cards. means trump cannot allow 2018 midterms alleged rot administration, would give democrats gift electoral victory hands mandate hound him. republicans bill clinton second term, impeached wake monica lewinsky scandal. must tempting trump supporters bet russia furor going away. yet produce smoking gun, smacks attempt rewrite electoral history. democrats agree appear obsessed russia story exclusion concrete issues health care, alienate voters. trump cannot run risk ending war attrition hostile congress, maintaining good relations congressional republicans matter, time keeping base side. trump might ideologically partisan president history, it's partisanship ultimately reduce oversight fend impeachment. words, best way trump flourish office -- unsurprisingly -- administration get things done. happily trump, republicans may mood passing modified health-care plan cutting taxes. really matters building wall.
wayne drash, cnn updated 9:31 pm et, wed october 7, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)the phone calls wouldn't stop. getting hold caller list gold scamming world. originating legitimate calling centers, lists contain names, addresses phone numbers thousands americans purchased online black market. scammers begin congratulating prey winning lottery mercedes. victims directed pay "taxes" front, typically $1,500 $3,000 western union moneygram. winnings never surface. sometimes scammers send checks thousands dollars lure people in; checks bounce, victims paid "taxes." scammers hook vulnerable, often tricking sending cash again. sense lonely person, flatter convince they're friends. sometimes, victims get coerced sending tvs appliances jamaica. rare flown jamaica married scammers. victims try back out, scammers use google earth zoom homes, describe neighborhood threaten kill rape family members. one elderly american duped $1.5 million, authorities say. another taped 99 $100 bills pages better homes gardens sent scammer. three years ago, 70-year-old engineer sent hundreds thousands scammers. one point, received letter purportedly u.s. ambassador jamaica asking take part sting. man flew jamaica, authorities -- who'd gotten wind plan -- met man bank wired $50,000 scammers' account. scammers' planned kill shortly transfer. sophisticated scammers send mass mailings tens thousands americans, asking fill form send back want participate sweepstakes. mailings often appear legitimate. scammers look handwriting respondents focus ones appear elderly. cnn's drew griffin david fitzpatrick contributed story. (cnn)the phone calls wouldn't stop. getting hold caller list gold scamming world. originating legitimate calling centers, lists contain names, addresses phone numbers thousands americans purchased online black market. scammers begin congratulating prey winning lottery mercedes. victims directed pay "taxes" front, typically $1,500 $3,000 western union moneygram. winnings never surface. sometimes scammers send checks thousands dollars lure people in; checks bounce, victims paid "taxes." scammers hook vulnerable, often tricking sending cash again. sense lonely person, flatter convince they're friends. sometimes, victims get coerced sending tvs appliances jamaica. rare flown jamaica married scammers. victims try back out, scammers use google earth zoom homes, describe neighborhood threaten kill rape family members. one elderly american duped $1.5 million, authorities say. another taped 99 $100 bills pages better homes gardens sent scammer. three years ago, 70-year-old engineer sent hundreds thousands scammers. one point, received letter purportedly u.s. ambassador jamaica asking take part sting. man flew jamaica, authorities -- who'd gotten wind plan -- met man bank wired $50,000 scammers' account. scammers' planned kill shortly transfer. sophisticated scammers send mass mailings tens thousands americans, asking fill form send back want participate sweepstakes. mailings often appear legitimate. scammers look handwriting respondents focus ones appear elderly. cnn's drew griffin david fitzpatrick contributed story. man end line made promises big payoff: millions dollars prize money. first irs needed $1,500 taxes, insisted, jackpot would arrive family home, camera crew ready capture excitement. calls came couple times day; times, nearly 50. mr. albert, need money sent today ... don't hang phone, mr. albert ... mr. albert, don't tell wife ... albert poland jr. worked 45 years burlington hosiery factory harriman, tennessee, starting mechanic rising become quality-control manager. wife, virginia, living humble life appalachian foothills near knoxville, raised son daughter 62 years marriage. family patriarch known simply daddy. age 81, mind faltering. suffered alzheimer's dementia. caller -- man jamaica -- preyed vulnerability. poland's lucidity fluctuated. february, went local police station asked whether could make phone calls 876 area code stop. another time, went post office send money caller. teller stopped him, talked handed brochure jamaican lottery scams. thanked her. family tried intervene numerous times. one good days, told wife simply, "i'm deep." march 21, caller asked $1,500. poland withdrew maximum $400 atm sent via western union. sure going win $2 million. hoped pay son's mortgage help family years come. son, chris poland, livid mother told father talking caller again. chris, 53, conversation months dad; father sent $5,000 caller. chris spoke father like son would. "daddy, taught value dollar. giving money away?" father son talked cell phone, jamaican called back poland's land line. mr. albert ... next morning, sunday, like repeat record. calls another tense phone conversation father son. virginia got dressed church. husband decided stay home. beautiful spring morning, temperatures hovering around 60 degrees trees lush green. poland strolled around yard. neighbor waved: "looks like we're gonna start mowing soon." "yeah, looks like it," poland said. walked basement family home. carried snub-nose .38 revolver. suicide note, poland told family spend much funeral said hoped $2 million arrived tomorrow, would vindicate him. 'truly heartbreaking' albert poland grips jamaican lottery scammer -- part cottage industry targets nearly 300,000 americans year, elderly, enticed send estimated $300 million annually caribbean island nation. aarp run campaigns warning scams originating jamaican 876 area code. u.s. postal service published pamphlets distributed across country. senate special committee aging held hearings two years ago magnitude problem urged u.s. jamaican authorities more. "the jamaican lottery scam cruel, persistent sophisticated scam victimized seniors throughout nation," said sen. susan collins maine, committee's chairwoman. "it truly heartbreaking scam robbed seniors hundreds millions dollars." it's huge problem jamaica scams dubbed highest-level tier 1 threat: "clear present danger" national security, says peter bunting, jamaica's national security minister. children nation's tech-savvy 20-somethings, former deputy mayor montego bay vicious gang members, lottery scams left segments island nation untouched. "it extremely corrosive fabric society," bunting says. "we seen corrupted police officers. corrupted legitimate businesspersons end playing role laundering money." poland family first spoke cnn april. investigators looking albert poland's case hope provide solace family soon; now, scammer remains large. there, cnn followed money, traveling ground zero scams, montego bay, witnessed police raid suspect's house. jamaica, 200 deaths year tied scams. united states, scams cost people lives -- life savings. trial marks u.s. first edna schmeets looks like she's straight "the golden girls" central casting: grandma curly gray hair 5-foot-2 frame. 86, she's soft-spoken, yet opinionated. month albert poland took life tennessee, schmeets faced scammer federal court bismarck, north dakota. sanjay ashani williams started scammer around 2008, making calls elderly americans. eventually graduated buying selling caller lists -- reams information containing names numbers tens thousands potential victims. williams made $5 million operation, government said. case marked first u.s. trial officials call "lead list scammer." addition dealing lists, williams continued making calls himself, including schmeets. "he said $19 million american cash awards would to, know, pay taxes money would release it," schmeets testified, according trial transcripts. "and kept calling sending another check another check another check. mean, kept life insurances gone, savings. everything. "i lost everything." sent checks $65,000, $57,000 $20,000 course next nine months. much lose total? "oh, goodness," testified. "when figured out, $297,000." assistant u.s. attorney clare hochhalter probed, "did become suspicious kept sending money didn't get prize?" "yes, did," schmeets replied. said told tell anyone "about get winnings, $19 million. then, tell everybody." keep sending money? because, schmeets testified, told would get "all money back, plus $19 million." schmeets husband, lawrence, married 62 years. lived small cattle farm. husband worked railroad industry; clerked grocery store bring extra cash. raised five children: four boys one girl. family endured tragedy years ago one sons died age 31. husband died 2010. phone calls congratulating winning lottery began fall 2011 continued june 2012. motivations wanting money simple: "i going give children." instead, husband worked gone. glanced occasionally across room williams. never returned gaze. instead, said, rifled garbage bag containing hundreds pages court documents. dressed orange prison jumpsuit, bushy beard braids piled top head. thought different person envisioned. "he seemed like nice guy phone," schmeets would say later. williams operated montego bay established intricate network runners based charlotte, north carolina, pick money send him. website, gamblerslead.com, gold mine scammers seeking phone numbers elderly americans. authorities studied 500,000 emails connected site, fbi agent testified. authorities discovered williams buying lists wholesale black market, go $5,000 contain tens thousands names. carved lists sold names numbers callers $5.50 apiece. thirty-two people united states jamaica indicted scheme. eleven pleaded guilty conspiracy commit mail wire fraud, seven awaiting trial, 14 awaiting extradition. according authorities, many pretended fbi agents, bank personnel irs workers convince people lottery winnings real. seventy-two americans, older 55, identified losing money williams' operation. william porter, 94, fighter pilot world war ii pacific theater. lost $250,000. charlotte davis, 64, also targeted. testified told scammer didn't send money, he'd rape daughters kill son. 72-year-old victim odessa, texas, committed suicide. prosecutor hochhalter told cnn difficult legally bring homicide charges case. "but believe factual evidence suggest offense involved conduct created risk serious bodily injury death," hochhalter said. "and that's evidenced fact least one person commit suicide." williams combative defense table much trial. said rights violated arrested trip north carolina, threw fits annoyed even lawyer. refused judge's recommendation wear nice clothes court, instead opting prison outfit. reaction judge suggested might want consider plea deal would result three five years prison. instead, williams placed fate hands jury. attorney, charles stock, tried make case hotels, credit card companies, casinos companies buy sell americans' personal information time -- it's perfectly legal. true, prosecution countered, becomes illegal knowingly use information crime. williams convicted array conspiracy, wire fraud money laundering charges. faces 40 years prison. "that big relief," schmeets said, "to know he's going prison." trial, expert jamaica's equivalent fbi gave assessment endemic scamming become. kevin watson, corporal jamaica's major organized crime anti-corruption agency, told court many jamaicans see scamming "the source income them." "in small pockets communities," watson said, "you find many persons involved activity. also find children grew ... believe ok -- it's ok get involved lottery scamming." deadly competition turquoise water coast montego bay serves majestic paradise millions tourists. outside walls resorts, victims lottery scams counted sums money lost ever-growing tally bodies. expansive four-lane highway along montego bay's resort row gives way winding, pothole-filled roads corrugated-tin homes press cracked pavement. goats straddle sides roads barely wide enough two cars. ghettos competition calling lists turned deadly. 200 jamaicans year killed connection lottery scams -- fifth killings island nation, dubious distinction among violent countries per capita world. scammers sell names numbers callers expect cut profits; find they're cheated, they'll hunt kill caller member family. killings occur rival gang members steal caller lists. "it's cancer society," says luis moreno, u.s ambassador jamaica. "gangs escalate armed competition going control lists going get best scammers, best phone numbers, best phone guys. even children young 10, 12 years old tied couriers." june, 14-year-old dragged home machine-gunned gang members connected scams. fate befell 62-year-old grandmother july. two american women wounded august nightclub gang member opened fire rival owed money. rival killed. "these gangs often indiscriminate," says bunting, national security minister. "when come looking target, don't find him, shoot members family essentially send message." average jamaican makes $300 month. top lottery scammers boast bringing $100,000 week. share videos washing cars champagne show setting fire thousands dollars cash. scammers justify actions calling reparations slavery, authorities say. we're robbing rich pay poor, scammers think. someone stupid enough send us money, that's fault. "you're stealing rich give poor," moreno says. "in fact, you're victimizing vulnerable people society -- jamaican well u.s." lottery scamming sprang 1998 1999 legitimate american canadian call centers set operations montego bay. young jamaicans trained empathize customers. one could known skills would result today's flourishing scam business. kenrick stephenson, known simply bebe, credited country's first lottery scammer. hub sprang granville, one montego bay's poorest dangerous neighborhoods. bebe trained, recruited cultivated young scammers. mansions popped up, taking land squatters dwelled. expensive cars cruised streets. scammers flashed bling. gates call centers, scammers lurked, offering money anyone would provide lead lists. even godfather lottery scams wasn't immune spiraling violence. bebe's life snubbed gangland-style gates mansion plush ironshore neighborhood montego bay may 2014. showing intricately tied scammers within jamaican society, bebe prominent gay activist powerful figure within ruling people's national party. killed, party member said would "sadly missed." casket said made gold. top officials know stakes great. violence moves closer resorts scares visitors, nation's economy would crumble. multibillion-dollar tourism industry counts 90% economy. "we zero-tolerance approach," bunting says. "we need establish much crime drug trafficking, much crime held somebody gun. ways even cruel age vulnerability victims." jamaican raid sign entrance rosemount gardens, middle- upper-class neighborhood montego bay, reads: "the law active here. take chances." today, law active. wham. wham. wham. two agents pound front door house. sound echoes around neighborhood. dog barks nearby house. one agents 9 mm machine gun. armed glock handgun. standing back. they've gotten intelligence man inside earned maybe hundreds thousands dollars scamming. house, one-room concrete shack, undergoing extensive renovations, including new wing front porch intricate floor-to-ceiling grill work -- fancy burglar bars keep intruders out. mound sand sits next porch. stucco front wall remains unfinished. inside, suspect grabs hammer drives nail laptop, piercing hard drive. runs bathroom throws laptop bucket water shower. begins eating pieces notebook paper. agent machine gun kicks open door rushes inside. agents follow, glocks drawn, go house room-to-room. seconds, spot suspect back bedroom. wearing gray briefs, holds hands air falls bed. "you get bed!" agent screams. suspect moans, mortified look across face. "right now! right now! downnnnnnnn!" lies stomach bedroom floor. agent handcuffs him. that's authorities realize he's chewing something. "spit out! spit everything!" agent pulls machete stands suspect, blade looming head. coughs pieces paper names numbers. authorities allowed cnn film raid. kevin watson, major organized crime anti-corruption official testified north dakota trial, oversees raid august day. watson made-for-hollywood cop, slick-backed hair, million-dollar smile effusive pride law enforcement. watson stands bedroom, handcuffed suspect next him. authorities found treasure trove: laptop, chewed-up paper, cell phones notebook dozens names numbers. watson holds flip phone scrolls call log. scammers prefer use flip phones instead smartphones limit digital footprint. calls america made 10:42 a.m., 10:43, 10:46, 10:47. call went different area code. "it's quite unlikely know someone states," watson says. turns suspect. "how long involved lottery scamming?" watson asks. "i don't want tell you're involved, didn't come chance. understand moca works, understand came know you're to. right. long involved lottery scamming?" suspect says wishes speak. questioning, acknowledges defrauded people "few years ago." "like many years?" watson asks. "i don't want respond," suspect says. "you understand get information, right? would prudent honest us," watson replies. silence. suspect's wallet name, address social security number 69-year-old man wisconsin. suspect admits he's never wisconsin. investigators log items seized bag them. take away suspect booked jailed. charged "knowingly possessing identity information persons intention commit offense," watson says. four years ago, watson scrapped job opportunity conduct raids like these. 37, father two young children made targeting lottery scams one primary aims. spoke elementary school year, teacher pulled aside told 17 35 students class wanted lottery scammers. spoke two boys, ages 7 9, told hoped become scammers could drive fancy cars live big houses. watson's heart sank. "i broken heard," recalls. "what lottery scamming making look like thieves live jamaica." leaves scene raid day, walks broken front door gives thumbs up. "we're successful one," says. plugging leaks watson jamaican colleagues begun making headway fight, although admit long battle. law enforcement personnel met priests preachers, business leaders teachers talk need stop scams. year, police spoken 10,000 children teens schools across montego bay. message: there's nothing glamorous stealing old people getting executed. jamaican authorities u.s. immigration customs enforcement launched joint task force 2009, called jolt, focus scams. little jamaican operations linked telemarketing task force could do, scammers essentially untouchable. little political prosecute scammers laws hold accountable. so, flourished. one prominent rapper glorified scamming song. people could walk streets montego bay hear scammers operating open, watson says. changed 2013, jamaican lawmakers passed become known lottery scam law, giving authorities tools need conduct sweeping raids keep suspects locked up. 500 arrests made since then. western union moneygram closely monitor transactions, especially around montego bay. scammers begun shifting tactics, using money mules carry cash directly them. sometimes, talk victims sending appliances cash hidden inside. call centers tightened operations. employees get searched shifts. cell phones, pens, notepads, cds, flash drives -- everything -- gets stored lockers work. internet access work strictly controlled. workers also undergo lie detector tests quarter, get fingerprinted warned likelihood jail time caught working lottery scams. measures "completely locked leakage information," says yoni epstein, heads trade group representing two dozen call centers jamaica. centers provide tech support, customer relations services companies like xerox amazon. employ 17,000 jamaicans. scammers longer wait outside gates. still, caller lists available online black markets, authorities say. leaks come disgruntled workers -- jamaica, countries -- hackers criminal enterprises. history made year jamaican extradited united states first time lottery scam charges. damion bryan barrett, 29, pleaded guilty wire fraud sentenced june 46 months prison. "before this, going difficult time. smoking, drinking, living," barrett told judge federal court fort lauderdale. "i want go home son -- better person him, won't happen him." moreno, u.s. ambassador, says barrett's extradition "sends message there's way really get away this." jamaica's minister national security agrees. bunting says jamaican officials want suspects extradited jamaican wants end u.s. prison. top drug traffickers jamaica extradited united states, bunting says, cut tremendously nation's drug trade. "if could get maybe dozen scammers extradited," says, "then could similar chilling effect." authorities pledge extraditions way. calls keep coming day albert poland killed tennessee, neighbors brought casserole dishes reflected man taught sunday school 45 years. phone rang. caller id showed 876 area code. rang again. again. again. 40 calls jamaica. poland wasn't even ground yet. chris poland could hardly contain rage. son decided something. picked father's phone, placed speaker hit record button cell phone. pretended father. man end said hoped deliver millions today. said he'd received $400 saturday needed another $1,500. "where wife right now?" "she's store," chris responded. "ah, ok, ok, ok. need now, mr. albert, need get bank card identification card go car right now. i'm going hang up. ok?" "but don't car. she's car," chris said. "ah, that's car you'd use go western union bank. right?" yes, chris told him, adding maybe could catch cab. "that would better, don't want bank close today need deliver money," man said. "we want deliver $2.5 million bank closes, put safe place. ok?" "ok," chris responded. "so go outside right get cab. i'm going hang ..." "ok," chris said. "where get money, $2.5 million?" "remember took address saturday. it's going delivered directly doorstep. ok?" chris said needs hail cab; caller promised call back 10 minutes. two hang up. three months poland's death, calls ceased. sometimes, virginia poland picks phone. found husband's suicide note next computer. "he best friend. buddy. good me," says softly, dabbing tears tissue. "when took him, took life, too." once, told husband's scammer husband killed himself. man laughed. told call funeral home.
dana bash cnn's chief political correspondent based washington, d.c. serves network's lead reporter covering u.s. house representatives u.s. senate. primary reporter covering 2016 republican field presidential candidates also continues regularly serve moderator cnn's political town hall specials. full bio dana bash cnn's chief political correspondent based washington, d.c. serves network's lead reporter covering u.s. house representatives u.s. senate. primary reporter covering 2016 republican field presidential candidates also continues regularly serve moderator cnn's political town hall specials. additionally, network's chief political correspondent, bash played key role cnn's 2016 presidential primary debates, serving questioner six network's seven primetime primary debates sides aisle. bash also serves co-anchor set cnn election center election night specials primary fill-in anchor jake tapper cnn's premier political show, state union. part coverage 2016 presidential campaigns, bash conducted sit-down interviews majority candidates including donald trump, senators ted cruz, marco rubio, bernie sanders, governors jeb bush john kasich. addition, bash secured several extensive interviews candidates' families spouses including first interview kasich's wife daughters; heidi cruz, exploring role husband's campaign; governor scott walker's two sons announcing presidential bid; frank fiorina, husband woman ran republican nomination. bash also continues instrumental network's capitol hill coverage. 2015, broke news live television house majority leader kevin mccarthy would running speaker house also conducted speaker john boehner's final interview last day office. bash also served lead correspondent covering former secretary state hillary clinton's 11-hour testimony house select committee benghazi. 2014, bash played key role network's midterm election night america coverage providing reports war rooms rnc, dnc cnn's election center washington. bash essential explaining many congressional breaking news stories 2013 fiscal cliff government shutdown. bash secured several key interviews throughout past year, including television-exclusive sen. rob portman (r-ohio) talk gay marriage reversal, groundbreaking interview former rep. gabrielle giffords (r-ariz.) husband mark kelly arizona, first interviews sen. rand paul (r-ky.) sen. ted cruz (r-texas) member's senate filibuster. 2012, bash part duo win joan s. barone award excellence congressional reporting stock act loophole could allowed family members lawmakers profit insider information trades. earned prestigious everett mckinley dirksen distinguished reporting congress award national press foundation unprecedented three times, recently 2012 reporting stock act loophole. reporting resulted congress passing legislation close loophole august. bash key player network's america's choice 2012 election coverage, reporting field inside voting centers across country primary caucus nights. also pivotal cnn's emmy award-winning election night coverage, breaking key congressional races. member peabody award-winning team network's america votes 2008 coverage, bash covered candidates trail network's primary reporter republican presidential nominee sen. john mccain's campaign. course long primary campaign, bash also interviewed major republican contenders broke number stories, including gov. mitt romney's decision suspend campaign. prior covering congress 2008 campaign, bash reported cnn's white house correspondent nation's capital various locations around world president george w. bush's administration. bash reported major stories including hurricane katrina, cia leak investigation, capture saddam hussein. instrumental cnn's 2006 mid-term election coverage 2004 presidential campaign. on-air position white house unit, bash capitol hill producer cnn, primary editorial newsgathering responsibility network's coverage u.s. senate. covered every major story capitol hill, including republican dominance 2002 elections, war terrorism, campaign finance reform, florida recount impeachment former president bill clinton. frequently cited on-air anchors reporters, also provided live reporting evacuation capitol days sept. 11, 2001, attacks. 2002, broke story government's secret intercepts al qaeda translations sept. 10, 2001, received first everett mckinley dirksen distinguished reporting congress award national press foundation. 2000, covered presidential primaries, including iowa new hampshire, traveling extensively former vice president al gore, sen. bill bradley presidential candidates. also helped coordinate coverage republican democratic vice presidential selections. previously, bash editor cnn's washington bureau, helped plan coordinate network's coverage capitol hill, state department key issues medicare social security. bash also served producer several network's public affairs shows, including late edition frank sesno, evans & novak inside politics weekend wolf blitzer, producing long-form live interviews heads state, lawmakers newsmakers. bash graduated cum laude bachelor's degree political communications george washington university. follow dana twitter @danabashcnn
sandra gonzalez, cnn updated 3:39 pm et, tue august 29, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)"i lot work every time step set, want learning experience get better." (cnn)"i lot work every time step set, want learning experience get better." logan browning isn't household name yet  unless house awesome, cool, watched netflix's "dear white people." makings one future. 28-year-old delivers knock-out performance embattled university radio host samantha white series, explores race identity fictional college campus. browning's character "dear white people" whole speak generation tv viewers expect entertainment -- it's longer (nor ever, really) good enough person color play backup white protagonist call representation. hollywood continues answer call inclusive stories, industry newcomer browning speed dial. cnn wants hear you. first time saw woman television identified with? see told her.
julian zelizer updated 5:07 pm et, wed february 11, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. julian zelizer professor history public affairs princeton university new america fellow. author new book "the fierce urgency now: lyndon johnson, congress battle great society." opinions expressed commentary solely author. (cnn)president barack obama sent letter congress requesting resolution grant authority use military force isis. effort placate opponents military intervention parties, administration hedged request including language restricts "enduring offensive ground forces" limits intervention three years. sent letter request promising congress would authorize "long-term, large scale ground combat operations" occurred iraq afghanistan. language, ask authorization use ground troops. julian zelizer professor history public affairs princeton university new america fellow. author new book "the fierce urgency now: lyndon johnson, congress battle great society." opinions expressed commentary solely author. (cnn)president barack obama sent letter congress requesting resolution grant authority use military force isis. effort placate opponents military intervention parties, administration hedged request including language restricts "enduring offensive ground forces" limits intervention three years. sent letter request promising congress would authorize "long-term, large scale ground combat operations" occurred iraq afghanistan. language, ask authorization use ground troops. reason take obama word would first authorization use force since 2002 president george w. bush requested conduct strikes iraq. obama usually hesitant use large-scale force unless absolutely necessary protect nation's interest, shown clear preference methods combatting terrorism -- use targeted drone air wars diplomatic initiatives. obama, came office railing bush's use wars afghanistan iraq, drawn down, eager jump another major conflict. yet history kinds resolutions give congress pause. start, lawmakers extraordinarily vigilant word resolution make clear kind limits want impose, live by. reality even presidents promised use limited force, nature foreign conflict logic own. pressure escalate support intervention. within united states, dynamics politics drive parties toward hawkish stand, relying liberal interpretation war powers formally granted. "what mean," asked sen. dick durbin, d-illinois, term "enduring offensive ground operations? long, big 'enduring'? 'offensive', what's 'offensive' comes department defense?" seen dynamic repeatedly recent american history. famously, saw lyndon johnson approach congress august 1964 request resolution authorizing use force response alleged communist attacks u.s. navy ships gulf tonkin. back then, johnson sent word members, sen. william fulbright arkansas, wanted power deal specific incident. fulbright told fellow senators johnson wanted anything bigger would return capitol hill request support. that's war unfolded. harry truman seen conflict korea, johnson kept steadily escalating military presence conflict would consume presidency. number legislators stood war, warning mistake threatening use budgetary power stop president, conflict proved extraordinarily difficult control. indeed, far legislators gave support operation started. proponents war parties good job isolating opponents war dangerous, unpatriotic radicals willing support fight communism. strength vietcong north vietnamese army, meanwhile, constantly created pressure intensify conflict. dynamics work even presidents exercise restraint. 1991, president george h.w. bush asked support employ force remove saddam hussein's iraqi forces kuwait. case, short term, elder bush lived word ended mission complete. problem dynamics region created ongoing pressure military intervention. united states formally announced hussein threat, difficult ignore continued provocations, hussein continued violate u.n. resolutions, ongoing pressure employ force. continued presence troops region operation desert storm, meanwhile, triggered intense animosity helped fuel creation spread al qaeda. 9/11, president george w. bush sought war power combat forces responsible horrendous attacks. initially, focus. quickly escalated. first congress passed resolution 2001 granting bush sweeping wartime powers, resolution obama's current request would leave place even many critics argued used far liberally. 2002, bush built seek resolution using force iraq. similarly congressional-approved counterterrorism surveillance programs would used fashion. it's always case, wars often get bigger bigger -- so-called mission creep. congress extraordinarily careful crafts resolution, initial authority quickly become basis ongoing, large-scale prolonged intervention -- far beyond legislators originally intended. means president sends request congress, legislators parties take seriously responsibility ensure language tight possible intentions clear. also use moment revisit 2001 authorization. done this? that's toughest part begins. congress live initial word push back efforts expand mission ways go beyond scope authorization. much easier said done. read cnnopinion's new flipboard magazine. follow us twitter @cnnopinion. join us facebook.com/cnnopinion.
jim bittermann cnn's senior international correspondent based paris. since joining cnn 1996, covered death princess diana 1997, nato air strikes kosovo 1998, earthquake turkey 1999 world cup soccer championships, among stories. full bio jim bittermann cnn's senior international correspondent based paris. since joining cnn 1996, covered death princess diana 1997, nato air strikes kosovo 1998, earthquake turkey 1999 world cup soccer championships, among stories. bittermann joined cnn abc news, paris news correspondent 1990-1996. years abc, covered wide range international events, including dissolution soviet union, gulf war middle east peace process u.s. deployment somalia. long-form projects abc included betrayed blood, report french aids-tainted blood scandal primetime live two half-hour special reports nightline ted koppel, perfect messiah fashion conspiracy. 1978-1990, bittermann european correspondent nbc news. based rome 1978-1979, covered two papal transitions travels pope john paul ii. 1980-1990, based paris. there, reported many decade's major international stories eastern europe, northern western africa, middle east, philippines, japan soviet union. received national news emmy award coverage 1988 sudan famine. prior nbc, bittermann toronto-based correspondent producer canadian broadcasting corp.'s newsmagazine. also worked reporter wkyc-tv cleveland, ohio, 1973-1975 working one year wqed-tv, public television station pittsburgh. 1971-1972, bittermann traveled national presidential campaign staffs sen. birch bayh indiana sen. edmund muskie maine. began career broadcast journalism 1970 wtmj-tv milwaukee, one year newspaper reporter waukegan news-sun waukegan, ill. many honors include cableace award cnn's coverage civil war zaire. panel moderator world economic forum davos, switzerland, member jury french film competition les lumieres de paris. since 1998, bittermann assistant adjunct professor communication american university paris, teaching courses broadcast news documentary film, among subjects. bittermann earned bachelor's degree southern illinois university, 1989 named southern illinois university's journalism alumnus year. 2000 received university's alumni achievement award.
weather like tomorrow are? check weather forecast track latest major storm. floods triggered torrential rain wash away building truck autonomous region tibet pic.twitter.com/kuy7bmbazj
latest supreme court.
thom patterson, cnn updated 8:28 et, mon march 14, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)there was, leader free world, president lyndon baines johnson, aboard air force one standing front reporters, naked jaybird. #historian jeff underwood talks lbj's oath office board sam 26000. http://t.co/54ywsq0ff9 (cnn)there was, leader free world, president lyndon baines johnson, aboard air force one standing front reporters, naked jaybird. #historian jeff underwood talks lbj's oath office board sam 26000. http://t.co/54ywsq0ff9 fair, hot, sunny day. johnson, wasn't shy man, finished delivering stump speech 1964 presidential election campaign. he'd invited white house reporter frank cormier two colleagues impromptu news conference presidential quarters, according cormier's 1977 book, "lbj: way was." it's every day president united states takes shirt pants answering questions economy. cormier described it, johnson "shucked underwear." then, nothing unusual going on, president continued talking reporters "standing buck naked waving towel emphasis." related story: first air force one wastes away desert big deal. another day air force one. plane carrying johnson reporters day special. "a person could justify it's important historical airplane world," air force historian jeff underwood said 2013. air force gave code name special air mission (sam) 26000. historic? nutshell, lot history taken place aboard airplane. president sworn aboard less year memorable interview, johnson become president aboard airplane. november 22, 1963 -- date millions americans remember well -- johnson sworn hours president john f. kennedy assassinated dallas. sworn u.s. district judge sarah t. hughes, woman ever swear u.s. commander chief. flew jfk's body dallas washington newly sworn-in president johnson aboard, kennedy's widow, jacqueline, accompanied former president's body, casket placed rear aircraft. portion plane's wall cut away make room. days sam 26000 landed washington, aircraft performed high-speed flyover kennedy's funeral arlington national cemetery. flew nixon historic mission china 1972, first meeting leaders china united states opened door diplomatic relations two nations, eventually giving washington geopolitical leverage arms treaty negotiations soviet union. flew three former presidents simultaneously egypt 1981, sam 26000 flew former presidents nixon, jimmy carter gerald ford funeral egyptian president anwar sadat. felt "somewhat ill ease," carter wrote years later. certainly reasons -- especially carter ford. five years earlier, carter, democrat, delivered stinging election defeat gop's ford. tension also ran high among staffers aboard flight. endured long waits use lavatories got upset received bigger cuts steak dinner, according author ronald kessler. nixon "surprisingly eased tension" "courtesy, eloquence charm," carter revealed memoir. aboard sam 26000, two former enemies developed camaraderie friendship, wrote historian douglas brinkley. royal visit presidential deaths plane also flew britain's queen elizabeth ii around united states visit 1983. carried lbj's body death 1973, nixon's death 1994, ferried casket home california. see folks used seeing president fly giant 747s might surprised relatively small sam 26000. seats 40 passengers. military version boeing 707, it's narrow-body, single-aisle, four-engine jetliner. plane display national museum united states air force near dayton, ohio, walk aisle look plexiglass see office commander chief took phone calls. also see area white house staffers worked long flights. and, yes, see tiny sleeping quarters lbj, um, waved "his towel emphasis" hot day 1964.
devon m. sayers field producer based network's global headquarters atlanta, georgia. full bio devon m. sayers field producer based network's global headquarters atlanta, georgia. prior working cnn, devon worked koat albuquerque, nm wmfd mansfield, oh.
cyril vanier anchor cnn international based network's global headquarters atlanta. anchors europe morning editions 'cnn newsroom' friday sunday. full bio cyril vanier anchor cnn international based network's global headquarters atlanta. anchors europe morning editions 'cnn newsroom' friday sunday. vanier comes cnni france 24, previously served executive producer, anchor international correspondent. 10 years france 24, reported major international stories terror attacks europe conflicts middle east. vanier also wrote presented france 24's flagship shows -- news, f24 interview debate, moderated hour-long live debate international issues four guests. vanier covered number major international breaking news events. anchored live coverage terror attacks paris november 2015, well terror attacks across west africa mali, ivory coast burkina faso. also covered charlie hebdo killings january 2015, surprise resignation fifa president sepp blatter terror attacks tunisia's bardo museum sousse beach. key events vanier reported include u.s. presidential campaigns elections 2008 2012, 2012 french presidential election, arab uprisings 2011, war afghanistan war crimes trial radovan karadzic hague. vanier's coverage libyan uprising nominated several awards including albert londres award, bayeux war correspondents award figra award 2011. prior joining france 24 2006, vanier wrote voiced stories reuters weekly tv show africa journal briefly worked producer cnn's paris-based correspondent jim bittermann. vanier received m.a. journalism political science institute political science paris b.a. honors law business university warwick england. dual nationality (france, st. kitts nevis), speaks fluent french conversational spanish.
i'm senior homepage editor weekends. direct programming decisions weekends coordinate breaking news coverage across platforms. also write space science cnn digital.
madison park journalist san francisco. previously digital news producer hong kong health writer/producer atlanta cnn. full bio madison park based san francisco. previously, reported wrote cnn's hong kong bureau, covering asia pacific korean peninsula. first joined cnn 2008 cover health medicine. award-winning journalist, covered hiv/aids, epidemics north korea human rights. went northwestern university uc berkeley.
thom cnn senior producer in-depth digital projects, also reports aviation. follow twitter @thompatterson. full bio thom patterson atlanta-based cnn senior producer in-depth digital projects, writes reports aviation. since 1999, he's reported, written produced hundreds original stories cnn digital. conducted one-on-one interviews cnn john mccain, chuck hagel, andrew cuomo white house presidential aide rahm emanuel. he's also privilege interviewing buzz aldrin, chuck yeager capt. chesley "sully" sullenberger. aviation enthusiast student pilot, patterson flown hurricane aboard air force reserve c-130 hurricane hunter. also flown aboard ww-ii era bombers including b-25 mitchell, b-17 flying fortress b-29 superfortress. enjoyed rolls loops at-6 backseater aeroshell aerobatic team. briefly piloted gz-20a goodyear blimp, "spirit innovation." covered first boeing 787 dreamliner return service worldwide grounding. reported cnn 2016 farnborough international airshow, eaa airventure celebration oshkosh, wisconsin, faa's tracon control tower facilities atlanta, georgia, area. 2005, covered kennedy space center nasa's first shuttle launch columbia disaster. patterson covered coast guard/ntsb hearings investigating deadly sinking world's famous square-rigger tall ship, bounty. also reported 2004 republican national convention, austin, covered 2008 texas democratic presidential primary. six years patterson based cnn's washington bureau, produced hundreds hours live tv newscasts tv news packages conducted interviews capitol hill white house. patterson holds b.a. journalism indiana university.
kyung lah senior national correspondent cnn based los angeles. full bio kyung lah senior national correspondent cnn based los angeles. lah returned cnn us cnn international 2012. broken covered number stories roles network. lah traveled malaysia australia cover missing flight mh370, malaysia ukraine crash flight mh17, japan cover historic ambassadorship caroline kennedy 50th anniversary father's assassination. also traveled demilitarized zone south korea covered fears asia democratic people's republic korea escalated tensions us. lah exclusively interviewed serial killer joseph paul franklin shortly executed death row well number alleged sexual harassment victims former us congressman bob filner. lah also reported newtown massacre, lax shooting rampage, asiana plane crash, historic colorado flood mudslides, yarnell hill fire killed 19 firefighters. rejoining cnn us, lah served tokyo correspondent cnn. march 2011, lah tokyo 9.0 earthquake struck japan. remained japan covering 15,000 killed tsunami world's worst nuclear disaster 25 years fukushima nuclear power plant triple meltdown. first us broadcast journalist taken inside meltdown one year anniversary disaster. lah reported extensively throughout east asia, reporting stories conflict human struggle china, korea, hong kong, philippines, malaysia, pakistan. lah interviewed numerous japanese prime ministers well leaders china pakistan. may 2008 huge earthquake shook china's sichuan province, lah flew epicenter. reported breaking news, visits un secretary general ban ki-moon china premier wen jiabao, well remarkable stories struggle survival. lah previously served national correspondent cnn newsource based washington, d.c. lah reported live breaking news events nation's capital approximately 800 cnn newsource partner stations. stories covered included 'jena 6' racial demonstrations virginia tech amish school shootings. lah joined cnn newsource knbc-los angeles, served morning news reporter today l.a. midday anchor. prior that, lah reporter chicago cbs affiliate, wbbm. lah also worked general assignment long-form investigative reporter abc affiliate kgtv san diego, regional emmy specialty reporting. first reporting position cbs affiliate, wwmt kalamazoo, mich. lah graduated honors university illinois bachelor's degree journalism. lah born seoul, south korea raised chicago.
sara ganim, cnn updated 9:18 et, tue november 3, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)nolan burch's parents didn't know west virginia university knew -- fraternity son pledging history bad behavior lose charter. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. (cnn)nolan burch's parents didn't know west virginia university knew -- fraternity son pledging history bad behavior lose charter. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. tucker hipps' parents didn't know clemson university knew -- unprecedented number fraternity violations happening weeks son pledged. marquise braham's parents didn't know say penn state university allegedly knew -- concerns son's well-being days leading suicide. three sets parents believe kept dark institutions trusted care sons. burch, hipps braham families share common sadness -- sons dead, lost believe hazing-related behavior. they're three two dozen students died hazing u.s. colleges universities since 2008. and, cnn learned, record requests sources, five hazing-related deaths many years, institutions knew trouble deadly incidents happened. 'occurrences concern' nowhere west virginia university's website say kappa sigma fraternity history of, school puts it, "occurrences concern" -- specifically referring fraternity "behaving inappropriately hosting unsanctioned event." fraternity also warned overcrowding off-campus residence. burch, wvu freshman, died following fraternity hazing event november 2014. blood alcohol content measured 0.493, six times legal limit drive. death led suspension greek activities wvu criminal charges two kappa sigma brothers. two days event, police say burch others blindfolded forced drink liquor, national office kappa sigma notified wvu pulling charter local fraternity chapter. according statement given cnn, national office directed local chapter stop holding functions. directive ignored, according fraternity's national office. "they'd much trouble (the national office) put cameras fraternity house," burch's mother, kim burch, told cnn. "the frat actually installed cameras." kim t.j. burch say 18-year-old son aware fraternity's troubles decided pledge. one told him, one told parents either. "we idea, unfortunately, nolan passed, many problems," kim burch said. "it's sad. it's really sad. known going on, would never let join fraternity." 'unprecedented conduct issues' semester, tucker hipps' family idea clemson university serious problem fraternities. university considering moratorium fraternity events, decided three days hipps died hold off. would later come sigma phi epsilon violated five rules hipps pledging, including violations related hazing, harm person, alcohol organizational conduct. university answer asked cnn officials aware five sigep violations prior hipps' death. hipps, 19, died fell, jumped pushed bridge predawn run fraternity's hazing policy. there's open criminal investigation family suing university three fraternity members, denied knowing died. parents say lack trying know fraternity's problems. hipps' father, particular, opposed son joining fraternity clemson. "his dad totally beginning," mother said earlier year. cindy hipps said she'd done due diligence, even attending greek orientation meeting, said put mind ease. "after class felt better it," said. "they said kids frats better time management skills, set study times, group activity. kids higher grade point averages. things mother wants hear, heard. convinced dad let it. never ever feel like child would harmed way." checked clemson's greek life website, saw positive information, links average gpas fraternity sorority. two references hazing policy, nothing explained fraternities sororities cited violating rules. time, clemson officials concerned "unprecedented conduct issues course first 3 weeks school," several school's fraternities, according internal documents obtained cnn. hipps' death, clemson added list suspended fraternities website. hipps' already-apprehensive parents known going clemson, say, would pulled son greek life immediately. dangers myths west virginia university, clemson penn state universities brag philanthropy, brotherhood connections life greek life websites. schools list positives. clemson's says "greek organizations hold social events, include alcohol." penn state's goes far say: "for many parents, fraternity sorority community reminds images movie animal house. many myths fraternity sorority community, reality men women fraternities sororities committed academics, volunteer time community, develop strengthen leadership skills, form campus network fraternity sorority members." kind language outrages doug fierberg, attorney braham family, recently sued penn state family's behalf handled dozens university misconduct cases career. "the dangers fraternities myths. reality," fierberg said. "the failure universities tell truth risks facing students fraternities specifically related hazing misuse abuse alcohol misconduct new battleground." "it needs changed nationally, parents students entitled timely accurate information risks face. universities basis, morally legally, withhold information university community," said. universities don't post hazing policy greek sites. example, west virginia university, it's posted separately campus police site. (west virginia university told cnn considering number changes, including "better timely communication.") others listed online faqs, several clicks away positives. universities list fraternity infractions websites, even do, it's often difficult determine infractions really mean. example, 2008 alcohol poisoning death brett griffin, 18, university delaware, fierberg sued behalf family forced delaware change greek life site list violations. list vague, listing things like "multiple violations" "social policy violations" "hazing/alcohol" without details incidents. "you're looking best practices," fierberg said, referring university delaware site. "what's 'multiple violations'? people hurt? student hospitalized? take get suspended?" northern illinois university adopted policy putting sanctions website 2012 death david bogenberger, 19-year-old pledge forced drink alcohol died. (twenty-two brothers phi kappa alpha fraternity criminally charged sentenced two years court supervision, plus community service.) three months death, niu made change, list isn't greek life website -- it's hard find, cnn ask university point is. (it's separate page, one office community standards & student conduct.) relationship universities fraternities confusing, since many reside off-campus chartered national organizations. fierberg said universities violate duties students parents create websites greek life include feel-good information, instead accurate complete picture. national fraternities better. major fraternity lists violations sigma alpha epsilon, according fierberg, that's sued sae 2008 death fraternity pledge california polytechnic state university forced list prior violations online. carson starkey, 18, died alcohol poisoning following event pledges forced drink alcohol, vomit, drink more. sae chapter cal poly prior drug violation death, according cal poly. "(universities) won't give full information confirm believe right," fierberg said. "of course zero tolerance policy. (hazing is) illegal. ... wouldn't tell parents it's still going on?" fierberg said suspects universities don't even write language greek life information sites, since many look same. fact, google search "myth" "greek life" "hazing" ".edu" shows nearly identical definitions hazing websites dozens schools. mental health emergencies marquise braham jumped roof marriott nassau county, new york, march 2014, year hipps burch died. source close case says evidence alcohol-fueled physical sexual hazing prior braham's suicide. fierberg representing braham's family lawsuit penn state. fierberg claims university aware "serious concerns" "well-being psychological health" braham, 18, days leading suicide. phi sigma kappa told cnn hasn't seen lawsuit comment. police chief logan township, pennsylvania, satellite campus attended located, told local reporters braham discussed hazing fraternity aunt several friends. case investigation state attorney general, charges filed. fraternity suspended. penn state said couldn't comment braham's death, family's pending lawsuit, admitted times university reaches parents notify harmful situations. "emergency context includes mental health emergencies well," university spokeswoman lisa powers said email. "in general, accordance privacy laws practices, student emergency balance critical nature/seriousness situation student's privacy rights make decision contact parents, not." many universities say alert parents health risks, student contracts contagious disease, pattern reporting comes potential threats, like hazing. addition hipps burch, 2010 death samuel mason, 20, allegedly made drink bottle liquor hour pledging tau kappa epsilon radford university virginia. radford university says chapter tke found violation university policy earlier year serving alcohol minors fraternity social event. family sued settled national fraternity several local chapter's members. death armando villa, 19-year-old california state university-northridge, pledging pi kappa phi, died hazing-related 18-mile august hike where, family lawsuit alleges, pledges weren't given enough water. fraternity cited completing required education programs holding unregistered events, reinstated suspension hike took place. spokesman family says mother, betty serrato, didn't know suspension says had, would tried talk son pledging fraternity. neither radford csun sanctions posted website, although csun told cnn considering putting online. "it's sad. it's really sad," kim burch said. "if known going on, would never let join fraternity. never life thought sending 17-year-old kid end two months later gone. it's repulsive. would better joining marines going war."
tom cohen, cnn updated 5:05 pm et, tue june 3, 2014 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. listening white house, sounds like adventure movie -- secret swapping detained terror suspects ailing american soldier captured afghanistan. congress, sounds like old old -- white house ignoring obligation let legislators know deal ahead time. aftermath sgt. bowe bergdahl's weekend release exchange five taliban figures held guantanamo bay, cuba, congress allege president barack obama broke law failing inform move 30 days advance -- called national defense authorization act. "the law says give us 30 days' notice. president thought unconstitutional invalid law, shouldn't signed bill," said georgia's saxby chambliss, top republican senate intelligence committee. "he knew well required law give us 30 days' notice didn't it." obama told reporters poland tuesday circumstances required immediate decision within authority commander chief. "we saw opportunity" "we consulted congress quite time possibility may execute prisoner exchange," obama said past talks involving bergdahl. "we saw opportunity concerned health cooperation qataris seized that. truncated make sure didn't miss opportunity." issue touches flashpoints old new administration critics, especially conservative republicans seeking depict obama weak leader driven political concerns legacy. foremost whether obama administration actually broke law telling congress beforehand weekend exchange bergdahl got handed u.s. military commandos near afghanistan-pakistan border five alleged senior terrorism figures flown qatar. national defense authorization act signed law obama late last year, administration gained added flexibility transferring detainees guantanamo bay, required notify congress 30 days advance. however, legislators power block transfer. writing law last year, benjamin wittes brookings institution said put administration "in position move detainees guantanamo long willing politically accountable problems create long don't bring united states." "it lawful," white house says exactly happened, national security council spokeswoman caitlin hayden argued tuesday statement. "given credible reports regarding risk grave harm sergeant bergdahl rapidly unfolding events surrounding recovery, lawful administration proceed transfer notwithstanding notice requirement" ndaa, hayden said statement. cnn legal analyst jeffrey toobin disagreed, saying obama "clearly broke law" even provide legal justification did. bottom line, toobin, law calls 30 days' notice obama didn't it. law, defense secretary chuck hagel authorize transfer "determines actions taken substantially mitigate risk individual engage activity threatens united states u.s. persons interests," transfer "is national security interest united states," hayden said. poland, obama noted tuesday qatar provided assurances would monitor activities five guantanamo detainees, described senior terrorist figures. terms exchange, five released taliban figures can't leave qatar year. "we keeping eyes them," obama said, noting possibility existed freed detainees would continue terrorist activities adding "i wouldn't thought contrary american national security." even more, contended, move adhered bedrock u.s. value protecting own. "regardless circumstances, whatever circumstances may turn be, still get american soldier back he's held captivity. period. full stop," obama said. "we don't condition that, that's every mom dad sees son daughter sent war theater expect commander chief united states america." 30-day notification period congress, hayden said obama administration determined wait could scuttle swap perhaps cost bergdahl life. conflicting responsibilities provided legal explanation, saying constitution requires obama president commander chief protect lives americans abroad protect u.s. soldiers, responsibilities case conflicted 30-day notification period congress. "we believe fair conclude congress intend administration would barred taking action circumstances," wrote. hayden also noted signing ndaa, obama said law "in certain circumstances would violate constitutional separation powers principles." "the executive branch must flexibility, among things, act swiftly conducting negotiations foreign countries regarding circumstances detainee transfers," hayden quoted obama's signing statement. toobin said signing statement amounts president's opinion "of law mean," rather legal ruling. "this example signing statement president taking power law didn't give him," toobin said. "that may constitutional, still violation law says." congress, exchange irritated already raw nerve never-ending power struggle white house legislators, accuse every administration trying run roughshod congressional authority. even obama ally like democratic sen. dianne feinstein california told cnn chair senate intelligence committee, received advance notice swap involving guantanamo detainees. tuesday, feinstein told reporters white house deputy national security adviser, tony blinken, called apologize lack advance notice. however, unclear feinstein's comments blinken referred courtesy call 30-day notification law. meanwhile, feinstein house speaker john boehner said white house encountered opposition top democrats republicans congressional intelligence committees previously discussed possibility exchanging bergdahl guantanamo detainees far back 2011. "given past briefings concerns addressed -- committees leadership committees; concerns bipartisan -- strongly believe consulted, law followed much regret case," feinstein said. boehner, ohio republican, also argued past discussions meant legislators expected obama administration brief exchange took place, adding: "the reason administration knew faced serious sober bipartisan concern opposition." however, another veteran democrat said administration took proper steps circumstances. "we received detailed classified notification secretary defense satisfies many substantive certification requirements national defense authorization act," said statement sen. carl levin michigan, chairs senate armed services committee. noting obama "put congress notice" last december intended act quickly cases, "members congress surprised acted circumstances existed." gop attack strategy republicans piled part strategy tarnish obama democratic brands ahead november's congressional elections 2016 presidential vote. gop committee chairmen house already plan hearings legality swap, move backed boehner. chambliss, retiring current term expires end year, challenged administration's explanation berhdahl's ill health necessitated moving swiftly complete weekend exchange. "there indication president said don't believe thing president says now," said. veteran gop sen. john mccain arizona took broader aim tuesday, telling fox news bergdahl swap part called misguided policy get american troops afghanistan end 2016 -- timetable obama announced last week. "the president may ending war afghanistan, taliban al qaeda ending war afghanistan," said mccain, constant critic effort obama limit u.s. military presence abroad. obama, defeated mccain 2008 presidential election, "is carrying foreign policy unreliability weakness" cost nation "for years come," said senator, former prisoner war. toobin said expected controversy remain political arena, noting courts rarely ever get involved power squabble executive legislative branches. "this shows members congress, even democrats, jealous institutional power," said, "and congress doesn't want treated like doormat, even president party." obama defends prisoner exchange bergdahl fellow soldiers call bowe bergdahl deserter, hero
thom patterson, cnn updated 4:40 pm et, tue april 19, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)the crash huge c-130j cargo plane killed 14 people afghanistan october blamed misuse night-vision goggles case, according u.s. air force investigation report. cnn's barbara starr theodore schieifer contributed report. (cnn)the crash huge c-130j cargo plane killed 14 people afghanistan october blamed misuse night-vision goggles case, according u.s. air force investigation report. cnn's barbara starr theodore schieifer contributed report. flight crashed 28 seconds takeoff jalalabad airport near afghan-pakistani border october 2 heading bagram airfield. initially, taliban said islamist fighters downed four-engine plane, u.s. military officials immediately shed doubt claims. dead included pilot, co-pilot, two loadmasters, two security team members five contractors passengers. three afghan guards ground also killed plane hit guard tower, said report, released friday. report revealed details unusual circumstances behind crash, said caused seemingly harmless item: small, hard-shell, night-vision goggles case. plane ground loading offloading cargo, pilot placed goggles case front cockpit yoke, used steer plane flight. pilot put case prop part plane's tail -- elevators -- help loading team deal tall cargo. goggles case never removed cockpit yoke. first seconds takeoff, plane's nose started pitch far, pilot tried adjust moving yoke forward. goggles case blocked yoke. read u.s. air force crash investigation report (pdf) pilot "misidentified ensuing flight control problem," report said, "resulting improper recovery techniques" pilot co-pilot. plane's nose pitched upward fast, leading stall crash, report said. aircraft exploded upon impact, said, everyone board died instantly. "the blocking flight controls loading operations non-standard procedure," report said, "as such, regulatory guidance prohibit act, address proper placement removal object blocking controls." report said responsibility pilot co-pilot remember remove goggles case, even though wasn't checklist takeoff. air force said c-130j hercules cost $48.5 million per aircraft. pentagon identified airmen killed crash capt. jonathan j. golden, 33, camarillo, california; capt. jordan b. pierson, 28, abilene, texas; staff sgt. ryan d. hammond, 26, moundsville, west virginia; senior airman quinn l. johnson-harris, 21, milwaukee; senior airman nathan c. sartain, 29, pensacola, florida; airman 1st class kcey e. ruiz, 21, mcdonough, georgia. golden, pierson, hammond johnson-harris assigned 39th airlift squadron, dyess air force base, texas. sartain ruiz assigned 66th security forces squadron, hanscom air force base, massachusetts.
carol costello, anchor updated 11:34 et, tue september 19, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. carol costello host "across america carol costello" hln. views expressed commentary hers. (cnn) "why shoot?" join us twitter facebook carol costello host "across america carol costello" hln. views expressed commentary hers. (cnn) "why shoot?" join us twitter facebook pain bill schultz's voice palpable stood beside attorney, barely 24 hours georgia tech police officer shot killed child. "that's question matters now," schultz said. facts -- know -- tragic. scout schultz troubled student, according family's attorney, may suffering mental breakdown. police say schultz advanced toward threatened knife. scout schultz, according profile website georgia tech pride alliance, identified nonbinary intersex preferred pronouns "they" "them." police, guns drawn, asked student "drop it." schultz shouted, "shoot me." when, according police, schultz "continued advance officers knife," one officer fired service revolver. unclear whether schultz intended prompt killing -- investigators say three suicide notes found student's dorm room -- know schultz battled mental health issues like many ultimately decide force hand cop end lives. set aside schultz case, clear serious pattern confrontations emotionally troubled people police. nationwide, number call "suicides cop" statistically troubling. tampa bay times compiled number officer-involved shootings florida 2009 2014. found 246 police shootings involved someone apparent mental instability. according data, newspaper tagged 85 shootings "suicide cop." months back talked sheriff mike chitwood volusia county, florida. "in little small pocket world, we've three police shootings since january," told me. "all three shootings involved mentally ill person medication getting proper care firearms." chitwood, interviewed beforehand comment happened georgia tech, surprised took step -- violent offenders suffering mental illness, said, "our biggest threat law enforcement today." numbers bear much high, chitwood said. "we called home mentally ill person mom (the) mom says ... he's naked living room, wielding machete wants guys kill him, please come help me. 22 seconds arrive, give wish." yes, added, many cases shootings justified law "sometimes lawful awful." solutions. one use strategies "time, distance cover," chitwood said proper way deal mentally ill person wielding deadly weapon. "we spend awful lot time training firearms -- rightfully -- (but) spend minimal amount time using thing use every single day careers. that's mouths. brains." back georgia tech, violent protests broke monday night following vigil held schultz, prompting schultz's family urge students respond violence violence. meanwhile, school recommending students "take advantage resources campus, mental, emotional physical well-being." lot attention rightly brought shootings african-americans police, recently protests st. louis acquittal former police officer shot killed black motorist. learn happened scout schultz, hope greater attention also paid shootings mentally ill americans well.
chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. wolf
nima elbagir senior international correspondent based cnn's london bureau. full bio elbagir joined cnn february 2011 reporter based network's johannesburg bureau, later moving nairobi. africa focus reporting cnn forefront nearly every major news story continent past three years. immense personal risk reported ebola outbreak ravaged west africa, going inside liberia's quarantine zones exploring devastation disease wrought across urban rural communities. elbagir also first international journalist report chibok, northern nigerian village 250 schoolgirls kidnapped terrorist group boko haram. able interview two young girls managed escape, described ordeal capture fear felt. elbagir filed several exclusive reports story yehya ibrahim, sundanese woman sentenced death committing apostasy -- interviewing ibrahim's estranged family terrified husband. work story brought attention world ibrahim's plight, helping generate political pressure eventually led sudanese government grant reprieve. also led cnn's coverage spiraling violence engulfed central african republic, traveling french troops worked broker peace entrenched muslim christian fighters. also reported somalia height horn africa famine; granted exclusive phone interview whilst tripoli safia gadhafi, former libyan leader's wife; following revolution egypt, elbagir interviewed justice minister mohamed abdelaziz al-juindy, called former egyptian president hosni mubarak face death penalty; reported south sudan new african country celebrated independence.. prior this, time freelancing cnn, stories covered time included escalating violence women congo; nigeria's 50th anniversary independence; south sudanese referendum; cnn's coverage hajj. joining cnn, sudanese-born elbagir worked various capacities uk's channel 4 number years 2005: freelanced kabul channel 4 news; reported "unreported world" documentary strand; reported presented channel 4 news more4 news. period, elbagir's exclusives included getting first interview aegis security company whistleblower iraq "trophy videos" (2005); interviewing jacob zuma run-up rape trial (2006); western journalist reporting mogadishu u.s. bombing somalia (2007); broadcasting first televised evidence iranian weaponry smuggled taliban (2009). elbagir began journalism career stringer reuters 2002 reporting sudan, one first provide footage inside darfur; also filing material economist, ft radio france international. stayed reuters london-based graduate trainee 2005.
atika shubert cnn senior international correspondent based berlin. full bio atika shubert cnn senior international correspondent based berlin. prior berlin, based london, jerusalem, tokyo jakarta cnn. time europe shubert played key role reporting terror attacks across continent, including paris attacks november 2015 shooting munich july 2016. reported extensively aftermath german chancellor merkel's immigration policy refugee crisis - rescue boats greece refugee shelters germany. shubert also covered presidential election austria december 2016, van der bellen defeated far-right candidate norbert hofer. whilst london, shubert cnn's lead reporter wikileaks scandal, largest leak classified u.s. government documents u.s. history. also reported 2011 riots shook england, british phone-hacking scandal embroiled media mogul rupert murdoch. jerusalem, shubert reported extensively israeli-palestinian conflict. reports included coverage israeli palestinian peace negotiations, palestinian militant rocket attacks israeli towns well fighting palestinian factions hamas fatah within gaza. tokyo, covered controversial deployment country's self defense forces iraq well north korea's testing nuclear weapons. 2004 indian ocean tsunami killed 200 thousand people, shubert one first correspondents report live aceh, indonesia, area closest epicentre. reports devastated region helped earn cnn prestigious alfred i. dupont-columbia award 2005. shubert started career cnn producer jakarta, indonesia covered fall indonesia's president suharto 1998, east timor's transition independence 1999 2002 bali bombings. graduated bachelor's degree economics tufts university boston speaks bahasa indonesia.
catherine shoichet covers immigration cnn digital.
catherine e. shoichet, cnn updated 11:22 pm et, wed august 31, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)as word donald trump's surprise trip south border spread, many mexicans took social media common refrain: "is joke?" un adelanto de lo que veremos maana #trumpenmexico @epn @realdonaldtrump pic.twitter.com/bzxce2gzaw venga seor presidente, hgale la bromita en migracin de que entra mxico ser hroe nacional  #trumpenmexico #srtrumpcontodorespeto, lo invitamos que nos visite para recordar la historia la repita. #trumpalmuseomyt pic.twitter.com/rn9lmx8zmu #trumpsmexicotripsayings mexican people love much honor paper statues. pic.twitter.com/gcab2oetuy sr. @realdonaldtrump aunque lo hayan invitado, sepa que es bienvenido. los mexicanos tenemos dignidad repudiamos su discurso de odio. cnn's rafael romo, rosa flores, alejandra oraa, christina zdanowicz mallory simon contributed report. (cnn)as word donald trump's surprise trip south border spread, many mexicans took social media common refrain: "is joke?" un adelanto de lo que veremos maana #trumpenmexico @epn @realdonaldtrump pic.twitter.com/bzxce2gzaw venga seor presidente, hgale la bromita en migracin de que entra mxico ser hroe nacional  #trumpenmexico #srtrumpcontodorespeto, lo invitamos que nos visite para recordar la historia la repita. #trumpalmuseomyt pic.twitter.com/rn9lmx8zmu #trumpsmexicotripsayings mexican people love much honor paper statues. pic.twitter.com/gcab2oetuy sr. @realdonaldtrump aunque lo hayan invitado, sepa que es bienvenido. los mexicanos tenemos dignidad repudiamos su discurso de odio. cnn's rafael romo, rosa flores, alejandra oraa, christina zdanowicz mallory simon contributed report. wasn't long started coming jokes controversial visit. many also poked fun mexican president enrique pea nieto, agreed meet trump whose popularity tanking. "an advanced look we'll see tomorrow," one person tweeted tuesday night, posting image lead characters 1990s cartoon "beavis butt-head." mexican actress ana brenda tweeted idea, encouraging pea nieto block trump border. "you national hero," wrote. mexico city's museum memory tolerance, includes exhibits holocaust us civil rights movement, offered trump free admission. "we invite visit us remember history repeat it," museum said twitter. it's surprise trump, launched presidential bid speech referring mexicans illegally cross us border murderers rapists, isn't popular mexico. here's look ways neighboring country responded us presidential candidate proposals: pounding piatas trump already mexico months -- piata. days billionaire businessman announced campaign, artist reynosa, mexico, started making piatas man suit wispy orange hair. wasn't long similar models sale across country. idea quickly caught united states well, stores texas california selling popular items. tweets mocking trump's mexico visit wednesday picked trend, imagining presidential hopeful might say sees piatas. making mask factory great owners halloween mask factory jiutepec, mexico, told cnn's rafael romo earlier year busier ever, thanks trump. trump's fame united states -- infamy mexico -- drove demand unflattering trump mask, picked last fall became clear republican presidential candidate serious contender. "we weren't making mask hair first," co-owner ricardo esponda told cnn, "but customers asked it. it's got hair." families fear impact mexicans, trump's proposals laughing matter. several families told cnn's rosa flores last month terrified trump's proposal cut money transfers us mexico. "it's right," martha mendoza said cooked tortillas home town francisco villa. town leader jaime leon said worried future small village. "francisco villa, without money transfers (from us), drown," said. "it downward spiral." ex-presidents slam wall proposal pea nieto seems extended olive branch, several former mexican leaders made clear they'll never see eye eye trump. former president vicente fox didn't mince words reporter asked earlier year trump's proposal make mexico pay wall border. "i'm going pay f***ing wall. pay it," fox told fusion's jorge ramos interview. since then, fox, led mexico 2000-2006, continued slam republican candidate. "trump using mexico, using president pea push sinking poll numbers," fox told cnn ahead trump's trip. former first lady margarita zavala joined fray wednesday, sending tweet trump. "even though invited you, know welcome," wrote. "mexicans dignity repudiate discourse hate."
becky anderson anchor "connect world becky anderson." tune show sunday thursday 4:00 pm bst / 8:00 pm gst. full bio becky anderson one cnn international's highest profile anchors. hosts "connect world becky anderson," airs weekdays 4:00 pm bst. anderson based cnn's abu dhabi bureau, allowing distinctive regional perspective today's important news stories, including deepening humanitarian crisis syria, continuing unrest wake arab spring ongoing israeli-palestinian peace process. anderson skilled interviewer, adept close questioning interviewed many world's leading politicians, decision-makers & thought-leaders. conducted one-on-one interviews top world leaders, including, desmond tutu, kofi annan, israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu, afghan president hamid karzai, south african president jacob zuma un secretary general ban ki-moon. equally home celebrities, quizzing world's a-listers, including lupita nyong'o, oprah winfrey, juliette binoche, andrew lloyd-weber, beyonc, george clooney, lady gaga, tom hanks, javier bardem brad pitt. july 2014 connect world left abu dhabi base two week-long journey around middle east extraordinary time upheaval. anderson team visited cairo, jerusalem, istanbul beirut, bringing range interviews, reports packages cnn international viewers around globe. crisis gaza deepened, becky's exclusive interview shimon peres, final weeks president israel, made headlines worldwide. elsewhere, sat lebanon's prime minister, tammam salam; qatari foreign minister, khali al-attiyah; turkey's prime minister, recep tayyip erdogan. anderson reported greece anti-austerity riots, tunisia arab spring uprisings rome abdication pope benedict installation successor pope francis. also official cnn olympic games correspondent 2012 broadcast live london's buckingham palace birth prince george. also played lead role cnn's extensive coverage 7/7 attacks london network's coverage war iraq. latterly anderson also focused covering issues affecting women young people around world. interviewed senior saudi officials countries women's rights record while, part 'connect world', discussed panel experts arab spring brought new opportunities women young people. 2013 also hosted live chat nasa astronaut karen nyberg based international space station, asking questions crowd-sourced social media. anderson extensive business journalism experience including posts uk's itn, cnbc europe bloomberg. began career journalism print reporter various business publications arizona, gaining master mass communication walter cronkite school journalism arizona state university 1992 2012 inducted hall fame. gained ba (hons) economics sussex university uk.
ryan browne cnn reporter based washington, d.c. covering department defense pentagon. full bio ryan browne cnn reporter based washington covering department defense pentagon. since joining 2015, browne reported cnn several countries around world including afghanistan, iraq, israel, bahrain, united kingdom, india, japan also aboard uss george h.w. bush. covered numerous defense national security topics including nato, recent conflicts syria, 2017 u.s. raid yemen investigations ties russia former u.s. national security adviser lt. gen. michael flynn. prior joining network, browne deployed nato training mission afghanistan advisor afghan national army. previously worked overseas japan well center study president congress director international security studies. browne master business administration columbia university bachelor arts degree government harvard university, also played varsity football team.
paul callan updated 12:49 pm et, tue september 26, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. paul callan cnn legal analyst, former new york homicide prosecutor currently counsel new york law firm edelman & edelman pc, focusing wrongful conviction civil rights cases. follow twitter @paulcallan. opinions expressed commentary own. (cnn)the painful debate causes cures racial injustice america flares periodically capture nation's attention. weekend many nfl players locked arms knelt protest playing national anthem football games across country. join us twitter facebook paul callan cnn legal analyst, former new york homicide prosecutor currently counsel new york law firm edelman & edelman pc, focusing wrongful conviction civil rights cases. follow twitter @paulcallan. opinions expressed commentary own. (cnn)the painful debate causes cures racial injustice america flares periodically capture nation's attention. weekend many nfl players locked arms knelt protest playing national anthem football games across country. join us twitter facebook protests triggered president donald trump's comments alabama rally friday subsequent tweets challenging patriotism athletes kneel playing anthem. suggested "son *****" athletes dishonored flag deserve fired nfl employers. monday president defended attacks, even team owners issued angry responses temper tantrum. conflict stirred impassioned debate around nation larger questions: right protest peacefully manner many americans, nonetheless, perceive form disrespect flag troops, concern held many president focused protesting football players instead north korean crisis, health care puerto rico's recovery aftermath hurricane maria. one often-heard, inaccurate, refrain among talking heads athletes "legal right" peacefully protest football stadiums across country us constitution guarantees freedom speech. "it's free country" line thinking goes, american soldiers fought lost lives preserve sacred right. fact is, athletes "right" protest football games unless employers consent conduct. private employers legal right us constitution fire suspend players engage acts protest field playing national anthem display old glory. imagine would happen tv anchors commentators decided "take knee" shows act protest. bet places would fired suspended -- would protesting bank tellers, store clerks, security guards, restaurant workers anyone else job do. attorney, would likely held contempt court interrupted presentation judge protest racial injustice america kneeling. yes, america "free country," whose citizens enjoy greater liberty "freedom speech" place earth, even limitations rights. courts repeatedly affirmed restrictions time place legitimate exercise constitutional rights. try shouting opposition trump administration broadway show see happens. you'll ask friend show ended. explain inaccurate concept free speech usher throws theater. first amendment us constitution outlines extent limitation important rights. states: "congress shall make law respecting establishment religion, prohibiting free exercise thereof; abridging freedom speech, press; right people peaceably assemble, petition government redress grievances." notice words "congress shall make law..." founding fathers made mention restricting right national football league private employer "prohibit" "abridge" freedom speech. colin kaepernick please take notice wording next time claims right protest violated team would sign became free agent. "on field" free speech rights constitution. perhaps consider registering vote really wants change public policy. first amendment restricts government abridging "the freedom speech." private employers please. thus, kneeling national anthem never legally prohibited government, always prohibited private employers. nfl owners far made attempt create league-wide rule matter protests. much undoubtedly depend controversy affects ticket sales whether president continues stir pot early morning tweets. reuters poll conducted last year kaepernick's protest methodology hot topic suggested 72% americans viewed colin kaepernick's protest actions "unpatriotic," despite stated rationale. poll, however, concluded 40% minorities disagreed kaepernick's form protest, suggesting big racial divide issue -- potentially among sports fans well. whichever side issue winner sports fans, clear one thing. america may "free country" constitution takes position actions professional athletes staging protests field. matter cheering them, booing firing left entirely hands fans team owners. unlike current president, founding fathers, apparently, important matters minds.
jason hanna, devon sayers madison park, cnn updated 9:35 et, wed november 23, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)just one day alleged killed san antonio police officer, hours arrested, otis tyrone mckane got married. cnn's emanuella grinberg jamiel lynch contributed report. (cnn)just one day alleged killed san antonio police officer, hours arrested, otis tyrone mckane got married. cnn's emanuella grinberg jamiel lynch contributed report. documents obtained cnn show mckane married monday, day san antonio police detective benjamin marconi shot dead. mckane, 31, arrested hours marriage suspicion killing marconi. police say believe marconi killed specifically law enforcement officer. name person mckane married redacted documents cnn received. marriage license issued bexar county clerk's office 9:57 a.m. ct monday, documents show. judge performed ceremony, said priscilla hernandez bexar county clerk's office. around time, san antonio police publicizing surveillance video, recorded sunday, man believed shot marconi, release name. video showed man seen inside police headquarters four hours shooting car leaving scene, cnn affiliate kprc reported. marconi, 50, shot close range sunday noon wrote traffic ticket outside police headquarters. police arrested mckane late monday afternoon. swat team stopped riding woman 2-year-old child interstate 10, san antonio police chief william mcmanus said. mckane already offered apology dead officer's family. escorted police department arrest, reporters asked upset. "society allowing see son," mckane replied. "i lashed somebody didn't deserve it." "i've several custody battles upset situation in." asked anything say marconi's family, replied: "i'm sorry," escorted away. shooting police say marconi pulled driver south side police station sunday returned patrol car write ticket. that's man pulled behind him. man walked patrol car driver's side window shot officer head, mcmanus said. man reached open window shot second time, said. shooting, man returned vehicle drove away. officers found mckane using videos information turned investigation, chief said. kept surveillance several hours, police said. wasn't immediately clear surveillance covered mckane's visit courthouse wedding. "based actions individual prior shooting, fairly good video documentation doing," mcmanus said. "i still convinced targeting blue -- targeting san antonio police department officer, matter was. officer came across." "this case, although we've made arrest, far over," mcmanus said. "we continue investigate every shred evidence believe exists, we'll turn district attorney prosecution." mckane criminal history. 2012 pleaded contest assault charge, according court database. several police officers targeted weekend police shooting san antonio one four incidents law enforcement officers shot sunday. marconi fatality day, death marked 60th fatal shooting officer line duty year, according national law enforcement officers memorial fund. well-wishers formed makeshift memorial flowers, balloons cards honor marconi front san antonio police headquarters. family released statement thanking community support prayers. "he well-respected," mcmanus said 20-year police veteran. "he great guy, great investigator. solid guy can't describe loss police department community."
self-described "news junkie" since age 11, doug criss cnn since 2010. worked copy desk chief atlanta journal-constitution. he's also reporting editing stints newspapers texas, illinois, south carolina home state arkansas.
michael d'antonio updated 9:20 et, wed october 4, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. michael d'antonio author book "never enough: donald trump pursuit success" (st. martin's press). opinions expressed commentary his. (cnn)finally lumbering devastated puerto rico aboard air force one, almost two weeks hurricane maria made landfall, president trump came face-to-face kind reality can't deflect anger derision. world waited see crisis, unscripted trump would rise occasion. not. join us twitter facebook michael d'antonio author book "never enough: donald trump pursuit success" (st. martin's press). opinions expressed commentary his. (cnn)finally lumbering devastated puerto rico aboard air force one, almost two weeks hurricane maria made landfall, president trump came face-to-face kind reality can't deflect anger derision. world waited see crisis, unscripted trump would rise occasion. not. join us twitter facebook upon arriving, trump sat group government officials began praising administration. like snow white's evil stepmother demanded mirror remind "the fairest all," asked rep. jenniffer gonzlez-coln join fawning flattering. "i watched day," said tv-addicted president, "and saying nice things people worked hard. jenniffer, think say little bit said us today?" quickly added, "it's me," course was. everyone knows, way deal president praise, indulgence political pats head. thus gonzlez-coln spoke president gave verbal thumbs-up even 3.5 million people puerto rico entered third week suffering many still lacked electricity, secure supplies food reliable clean water. indeed, real complaint came trump himself, said, "i hate tell puerto rico, you've thrown budget little whack." narcissist's tour de force, trump's arrival meeting likely first time president visited part country ravaged natural disaster complained cost emergency response. something inside realized gone far. "that's fine," quickly added, "we've saved lot lives." lifesaving federal government supposed disaster strikes, hurricanes recently ravaged texas florida wasted time getting scene never complained cost. case puerto rico, wasted time bashing football players protesting racial inequities took eye island enjoyed long weekend golf resort. washington post reported, four days "trump top aides effectively went dark themselves." trump slow react tragedy puerto rico mayor san juan cried frustration. naturally, president took personal offense. "the mayor san juan, complimentary days ago, told democrats must nasty trump," president said tweet golf club bedminster, new jersey. also said, "such poor leadership ability mayor san juan, others puerto rico, able get workers help. want everything done community effort." bizarre comments another example psycho-political dynamic makes dealing president difficult. world, problems caused bad people, especially personal enemies, don't want blame causing problems better make clear agree him. trump established washington, minions challenged live distortion field. start, sean spicer showed done affirmed president's wildly inaccurate claims enormous crowds inauguration. february, adviser sebastian gorka said reports white house chaos inaccurate, even stories disarray poured 1600 pennsylvania avenue. june, everyone seemed figured make trump happy. bizarre cabinet meeting, praised like god. chief staff reince priebus typical said, "we thank opportunity blessing serve agenda." though able toadies, spicer, gorka priebus would soon gone white house they, nevertheless, failed mirrors trump image. another problem comes chief executive brittle ego. though demands loyalty others, stinting commitments, woe man woman makes look bad. take, example, administration's recent debacle, culminated health & human services secretary tom price resigning spending $1 million private military jet travel. trump demanded go, abused taxpayers, scandal made him, donald trump, look bad. "look, think he's fine person," trump said price adding, "i certainly don't like optics." denying reality everyone else see, trump said price "fine man," arrogant bureaucrat, say otherwise would suggest made mistake selecting first place. trump allergic even hint mistake, miscalculation inadequacy he's rather confess bothered way price made look actually did. president's preference reality new. throughout life, used money, power temper construct reality. massive business bankruptcies failures brilliant bits management. said new york's biggest builder wasn't. and, adweek pointed out, declared reality tv show "the celebrity apprentice" number 1, even 41st. reality shows, pasted together days video-taped interactions, real conspiracy trump claimed responsible idea asbestos human health hazard. however, ideal expression mind donald trump. everyone program competed attention, praised acumen. television, offices, percentage piercing fantasy. problem trump realities cannot explained away complaints "fake news" usual methods blaming shaming others. puerto rico, confronted immutable fact devastating hurricane. failed initial response, made things worse lashing locals mishandled visit compassion instead, him. sadly, country also struggling recover another massive tragedy las vegas gunman killed 59 people injured hundreds music festival. crisis acute president able appear tv, speak comforting words written make things worse. president arrives las vegas week yet another mission calls presidential grace, response trauma, one opportunity show self-centered, ego-driven insecure. it's another chance occupy reality brings pain rest us. record leaves great doubt whether he's it.
holly yan, cnn updated 3:25 pm et, mon october 23, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)sgt. bowe bergdahl spent five years held captive taliban. depending outcome sentencing hearing, could spend rest life behind bars. cnn's kellie keesee, devon sayers, martin savidge, zachary cohen matt wotus contributed report. (cnn)sgt. bowe bergdahl spent five years held captive taliban. depending outcome sentencing hearing, could spend rest life behind bars. cnn's kellie keesee, devon sayers, martin savidge, zachary cohen matt wotus contributed report. bergdahl, 31, pleaded guilty last week misbehavior enemy desertion. sentencing hearing scheduled monday, postponed wednesday due attorney's family emergency. bergdahl deserted outpost afghanistan june 2009. hours later, captured taliban. eventually released controversial prisoner swap exchange five guantanamo bay detainees. hearing last week, bergdahl told judge, army col. jeffery r. nance, trying reach base dispatched. bergdahl said wanted report "a critical problem chain command," specify problem was. "i left observation post own," bergdahl told judge last week. "i understand leaving law." judge said bergdahl faces life prison. taliban capture torture five years taliban captivity, bergdahl made "somewhere dozen 15 escape attempts," told judge last week. bergdahl previously described torture endured, included months chained bed years either locked cage chained fours. five years, taliban released bergdahl prisoner swap five detainees guantanamo bay. time, president barack obama cited "sacred rule" attempting rescue american service members -- matter circumstances surrounding capture. "we still get american soldier back he's held captivity. period. full stop. don't condition that," obama said time. since then, bergdahl called traitor hero. celebrated first, bergdahl's release raises questions 2015, army sanity board evaluation said bergdahl schizotypal personality disorder. information included hundreds pages documents bergdahl's defense team released website called bergdahl docket. former comrade: 'he's still coward' retired army spc. cody full, member bergdahl's platoon afghanistan, called bergdahl "coward." said military open-door policy service members voice concerns chains command, bergdahl reason desert. "he coward nine years ago deserted, think showed he's still coward," full said. "he refuses take responsibility actions." bowe bergdahl? actions, full said, jeopardized safety service members. "he literally put thousands thousands people's lives risk could go want complain whatever transgressions thought happened didn't happen," full said. prosecution said intends call two soldiers navy seal say wounded search bergdahl. army general led investigation bergdahl's actions afghanistan testified jail time would "inappropriate." maj. gen. kenneth dahl said find evidence corroborate reporting bergdahl sympathetic taliban." terrence russell, debriefed bergdahl working department defense's joint personnel recovery agency, said sergeant suffered "horrific" conditions taliban captivity. "an army one, fight enemy alone four years 11 months," russell testified 2015. "you cannot overestimate difficult is." sunday, eugene fidell, bergdahl's civilian defense attorney, would share cnn defense plans call witness sentencing phase trial. trump: bergdahl 'should shot' 2016 presidential campaign, donald trump said bergdahl "should shot" walking post. "in good old days, would executed," trump said. trump took office, bergdahl's lawyers argued judge dismiss charges trump's comments, claiming trump violated bergdahl's due-process rights saying would possible bergdahl get fair trial. bowe bergdahl: wanted jason bourne military judge ruled dismissing charges. bergdahl later chose tried military judge rather jury. exclusive interview obtained abc last year, bergdahl said didn't think would able get fair trial trump's comments shot. "we may well go back kangaroo courts lynch mobs. got wanted," bergdahl said. "people point saying, 'yeah, shoot him' -- never convince people change minds."
clare sebastian correspondent cnn international based new york. covers business financial stories cnni's news business shows. full bio clare sebastian correspondent cnn international based new york. covers business financial stories cnni's news business shows including quest means business cnnmoney maggie lake. recently reported wells fargo fake account scandal, volkswagen emissions scandal completed investigation donald trump's legacy atlantic city. also reported extensively moscow, covering olympic doping scandal russian view 2016 u.s. presidential election campaign. sebastian previously senior producer quest means business. produced shows location buckingham palace berlin new york stock exchange, developed much show's original content. also produced breaking news coverage cnn arab spring greek debt crisis. joining cnn 2008, sebastian worked producer reporter russia today (rt) moscow. graduated cambridge university 2006 bachelor art's degree modern languages. sebastian fluent russian.
dana bash, cnn updated 7:27 et, fri october 6, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)h.r. mcmaster, president donald trump's national security adviser, invited small group democratic senators white house wednesday discuss president's plans iran deal, lawmakers left impression sold idea decertifying right way go, according two sources familiar meeting. stockpiles & centrifuges: deal curbed iran's nuclear program, reducing stockpiles enriched uranium 97 percent cutting number centrifuges two-thirds. uranium enrichment: still allows iran continue enrichment -- enough civil use power parts country, enough build nuclear bomb. inspections: iran required provide inspectors un's nuclear watchdog access monitor declared nuclear facilities. compliance: every 90 days, us president must certify congress iran keeping end deal. president certify agreement, congress statutory 60-day period decide whether reimpose sanctions. sanctions: iran doesn't comply, us, european union, un nuclear-related sanctions iranian economy would reinstated. number non-nuclear-related sanctions currently remain place. sources: white house, state department, congress, cnn washington (cnn)h.r. mcmaster, president donald trump's national security adviser, invited small group democratic senators white house wednesday discuss president's plans iran deal, lawmakers left impression sold idea decertifying right way go, according two sources familiar meeting. stockpiles & centrifuges: deal curbed iran's nuclear program, reducing stockpiles enriched uranium 97 percent cutting number centrifuges two-thirds. uranium enrichment: still allows iran continue enrichment -- enough civil use power parts country, enough build nuclear bomb. inspections: iran required provide inspectors un's nuclear watchdog access monitor declared nuclear facilities. compliance: every 90 days, us president must certify congress iran keeping end deal. president certify agreement, congress statutory 60-day period decide whether reimpose sanctions. sanctions: iran doesn't comply, us, european union, un nuclear-related sanctions iranian economy would reinstated. number non-nuclear-related sanctions currently remain place. sources: white house, state department, congress, cnn sources said meeting clearly intended mcmaster get ideas key senate democrats avoid decertifying iran deal, many parties think would destabilize relations allies make harder confront foes well beyond iran. sources say mcmaster never explicitly said disagrees president, wants trump certify iran deal america's national interest. sources say mcmaster repeatedly responded democratic senators' entreaties decertify iran instead look bipartisan alternatives saying one convince, suggesting preaching choir. administration source told cnn senators got wrong impression meeting, insisted mcmaster behind president's iran strategy -- worked whole team craft it. mcmaster wants make better deal address major flaws republicans democrats agree addressed, source said. michael anton, spokesman national security council, told cnn mcmaster "fully agrees" trump iran deal "seriously flawed." "he continues work tirelessly interagency process present president options address flaws. also helping administration work legislators develop common us government approach deny iranian regime paths nuclear weapon," said. trump plans "decertify" iran nuclear deal next week, declaring obama-era pact us interests launching congressional review period accord, according two senior us officials. ease mcmaster decertifying iran deal puts side top members trump national security team. week, sen. angus king, maine independent, asked defense secretary james mattis whether thinks america's national security interest stay iran deal. "yes, senator, do," mattis responded. bottom line impression several senators got mcmaster president simply feel comfortable putting name piece paper saying america's national interest part deal, heavy lift getting president certify twice year iran complying deal. senators brought meeting highly engaged iran issue, moderate democrats tend likely work president, sources said. one point meeting, democratic north dakota sen. heidi heitkamp spoke seemingly trump's defense, sources said, expressing understanding point view it's hard president put name documents related iran deal doesn't believe in. story updated.
jason kwok associate creative director cnn digital, based hong kong. full bio working part global design team, jason provides creative solutions including interactives, infographics digital elements cnn. amateur photographer enjoys taking urban hong kong city scenes.
scott jennings updated 9:38 et, sat september 30, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. scott jennings cnn contributor former special assistant president george w. bush. partner runswitch public relations louisville, kentucky. opinions expressed commentary solely author. (cnn)we've got enough data anecdotes make early call whether president donald trump's fight nfl players kneeling national anthem political winner him. small probably irrelevant caveat, was. join us twitter facebook scott jennings cnn contributor former special assistant president george w. bush. partner runswitch public relations louisville, kentucky. opinions expressed commentary solely author. (cnn)we've got enough data anecdotes make early call whether president donald trump's fight nfl players kneeling national anthem political winner him. small probably irrelevant caveat, was. join us twitter facebook two national surveys rigorous methodologies show americans opposed kneeling national anthem: -- fox news poll found 55% americans saying kneeling inappropriate. -- recent cnn/ssrs poll adults found 49% saying players wrong thing, versus 43% say right thing. almost one-quarter american adults said planned personally boycott nfl games, broadcasts products protests. inside cnn poll, trump got wanted: republicans (87%) independents (48%) sided not. heck, even 21% democrats nfl issue. even 24% people disapprove job he's overall see issue way. (a bevy surveys varying methodologies also found clear majorities agreeing trump). anecdotally, anger protests continues bubble. directv, satellite television provider sunday ticket nfl package, offering refunds fans offended protests. according wall street journal: "a substantial number cancellations risks damage league tries rebound ratings. viewership fell last year continues year." caveat surveys also show people largely disagreeing trump's call kneeling players fired. trump, that's irrelevant. wasn't laying official policy pronouncement much channeling gut-level feelings average voter eating breakfast hardee's dayton. don't forget -- sizable portion american electorate would oppose donald trump suggestion, whether he's talking football fried potatoes. calling players fired reminds trump's calls "lock up" 2016 presidential campaign. i'm sure people thought might actually jail hillary clinton win election, folks saw chant was: hyperbole designed simply channel public sentiment. reading washington post piece week darrell hammond, former "saturday night live" cast member best trump impression unceremoniously dumped favor alec baldwin, talented comedian summed trump's political instincts succinctly: "genius empath." case nfl protests, trump absorbed channeled feelings americans, vast majority likely voters, nearly supporters. taking extra step calling players fired, stoked even hotter outrage people intends inflame, strategy works time again. wants liberal enemies politics media take bait cultural war asides, usually (and stupidly) oblige. battles illustrate democratic party "lost favor among voters rural small-town america," legendary journalist dan balz reported last year. people don't take kindly standing national anthem places trump republicans need win 2018 2020. trump couldn't care less people urban areas, republicans hope competing anyway, upset strident, colorfully communicated views. like political magician endless bag predictable-yet-entertaining tricks, trump turned democrats urban elite, anti-working man party 2016. 2017, turned anti-american flag party. democrats don't stop taking bait things, next trick, trump might make disappear 2018 2020.
scott zamost, drew griffin curt devine, cnn updated 5:11 pm et, tue september 15, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. miami (cnn)inside plane miami international airport, baggage handlers going shopping spree passengers' bags. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. cnn's yasmin khorram harmeet kaur contributed report. miami (cnn)inside plane miami international airport, baggage handlers going shopping spree passengers' bags. email story ideas tips cnntips@cnn.com. cnn's yasmin khorram harmeet kaur contributed report. don't know recorded hidden camera. miami-dade police department set camera part ongoing police investigation luggage thefts airport workers supposed get bags safely onto planes. "it's problem face," said police lt. pete estis. "we continue proactive see claims pilfering luggage actually decrease." miami aviation director emilio t. gonzlez said insider theft cases "are indeed exception among thousands decent, hardworking employees mia, prosecuted fullest extent law crimes." insider thefts don't happen miami. cnn analysis passenger property loss claims filed tsa 2010 2014 shows 30,621 claims missing valuables, mostly packed checked luggage. rest occurred security checkpoints. total property loss claimed: $2.5 million. john f. kennedy international airport new york topped list airports claims thefts luggage, followed los angeles international, orlando international miami international, according data. problem serious jfk 2013, el al airlines set hidden camera baggage hold. camera showed baggage handlers stealing items flights bound israel, including $5,000 seiko watch, iphones, ipad, cameras, gold rings cash. six arrested pleaded guilty possession stolen property petty larceny seventh suspect's case sealed, according queens district attorney's office. high-profile case, though, didn't stop thefts. two baggage handlers jfk arrested 2014 authorities said stole two designer handbags suitcase, tried sell ebay. then, december, seven jfk baggage handlers charged stealing valuables checked luggage. items stolen suitcases passengers traveling hawaii, japan, johannesburg, london, bangkok, dubai, milan various u.s. cities. miami, aggressively goes luggage thieves, police arrested 31 baggage handlers ramp workers since 2012, including six far year. police set hidden camera inside belly plane last year caught baggage handlers rifling luggage stealing various items. another hidden camera caught baggage handler rummaging bags secure luggage room inside airport security guard looked way. "insider threat scary us law enforcement, certainly someone taking somebody's cell phone, ipad, computer -- what's next?" estis said. cnn investigation earlier year found miami orlando two major airports country require employees screened metal detectors. miami even checks employees leave work go main terminal. apparently hasn't stopped luggage thieves. "as far able get property airfield, that's great question," estis said. "we theories." los angeles, police last year executed search warrants 25 locations getting complaints thefts two terminals. among valuables found computers, watches, jewelry cameras designer bags. sixteen airport workers fired. "we cut theft two terminals 60% aggressive investigative work," said patrick gannon, police chief los angeles international airport. luggage theft could definitely lead serious problems, said. "i absolutely think don't pay attention small things happen around here, could lead much larger things. is, believe, connection baggage theft terrorism," gannon said. even tsa problem employees. since 2002, agency fired 513 officers theft. employs 50,000 officers today, last year screened 443 million checked bags nearly 1.7 billion carry-ons. da: guns smuggled planes delta employee 'egregious' security breach luggage theft isn't confined airport workers. outsiders caught surveillance cameras stealing luggage carousels. cnn contacted airports around country found total thefts carousels relatively low, continues problem. example, seattle reported 214 luggage thefts carousels airport locations last year, 200 las vegas, 36 atlanta, 35 phoenix, 15 ronald reagan washington national, 14 dulles international 10 chicago's o'hare airport. odd tsa finds
cynthia hudson senior vice president general manager cnn en espaol hispanic strategy cnn/u.s. full bio cynthia hudson senior vice president general manager cnn en espaol hispanic strategy cnn/u.s. hudson oversees aspects cnn's spanish-language media businesses, including newsgathering, editorial content, programming, production, operations personnel, cnn en espaol 24/7 television news network, cnn en espaol radio cnnespaol.com since arrival, hudson re-launched cnn en espaol's multi-platform business expanded feeds latin america, mexico united states, well revamping network's programming branding. changed channel news wheel program-based information network added studio miami, well expanding production key bureaus mexico, argentina, washington, d.c. los angeles. hudson launched cnnespaol.com expanded radio business include 150 new affiliates u.s. another 100 markets latin america europe. hudson added new talent hit shows cala, caf cnn, conclusiones cnn dinero, launched originally produced documentaries, investigative series live programming. addition extensive bilingual staff cnn headquarters atlanta, cnn en espaol' operations include newsgathering spanish-speaking personnel based cnn bureaus washington, new york, los angeles, miami, buenos aires jerusalem, worldwide network nearly 50 spanish-speaking contributing journalists. hudson, cnn en espaol two emmys, three glaad awards, two promax-bda awards, well honorable mention shortly awards best multi-platform campaign social coverage 2014 venezuelan crisis. joining cnn en espaol, hudson served chief creative officer executive vice president sbs managing director mega tv. responsible sbs' expansion, directly overseeing flagship tv station mega tv, well company's internet site lamusica.com new media development. addition, hudson supervised strategic expansion sbs content across multiple media platforms development branded entertainment synergies among sbs properties. mega tv saw tremendous growth watch garnered network 27 emmy awards four years since launch. 1997 2005, hudson served senior vice president editorial director cosmopolitan television (a hearst entertainment syndication group division), heading creation development cosmopolitan tv networks, including canal cosmopolitan iberia canal cosmopolitan latin america well foundation cosmo tv canada. led research, development creation cosmo tv, overseeing design original programs, on-air packaging, promotions program acquisitions, well creation production original formats overall business strategy networks. hudson also wrote created original drama, miami sands, promark's internationally successful english-language american telenovela. prior cosmopolitan tv, hudson senior vice president programming creative services united international holding's joint venture channel service, united family communications (ufc), mgm networks latin america. ufc created casa club tv, first pan-regional home channel latin america (today mgm). hudson vice president programming production telemundo network 1992-94. tenure, network's programming line-up redesigned, achieving highest ratings date developing first in-house telenovela production unit successes "tres destinos," prime-time scripted drama series debuted 1994. 1984 1992, hudson held various production executive positions univision network, including executive producer first daytime u.s. hispanic magazine show, "tv mujer" ("tv woman"), garnered univision first emmy award ongoing series production. hudson started professional career news producer reporter univision affiliate wltv 23, held various positions reporting production management. hudson 8 regional emmy awards, named one people en espaol's powerful women, well one powerful hispanics poder, hispanic target influential publications. born los angeles, holds masters communications university miami, fluent english spanish.
kristie lu stout award-winning anchor correspondent cnn international. full bio kristie lu stout award-winning anchor correspondent cnn based hong kong host daily, live cnn flagship program 'news stream'. cnn digital tv, conducted number in-depth interviews world's innovative thinkers including serial entrepreneur elon musk, vogue editor anna wintour, portrait photographer annie leibovitz. lu stout awarded best current affairs presenter best news presenter asian television awards, program 'news stream' awarded best news program. also recognized royal television society work part award-winning team covered super typhoon haiyan philippines. based china almost two decades, lu stout keeps particular focus developments china dramatically changing world us. anchoring cnn's groundbreaking 'eye china' series 2004, cnn's 'countdown beijing' ahead 2008 olympics, lu stout remained committed reporting country. also instrumental launching 'on china,' cnn's first-ever regular series focused country -- first international tv news network. news stream, lu stout digs deep world affairs expert analysis commentary. also identifies reports emerging tech trends -- bringing what's next focus global audience. 450,000 fans followers social media, lu stout believes continually engaging viewers makes social media integral part reporting. also believes contributing debate viewers off-camera regular speaking moderating appearances around world, well known style stimulating frank lively question-and-answer sessions. kristie lu stout started career journalism san francisco wired magazine's online division. written technology various media publications including south china morning post, founded wrote "beijing byte" column. career journalism, early employee beijing-based internet company sohu.com worked reuters' new media team china. lu stout american chinese european descent. holds bachelor's master's degree stanford university, studied advanced mandarin chinese beijing's tsinghua university. follow at: @klustout facebook.com/kristielustout gplus.to/klustout
christopher lett field producer based atlanta. comes cnn americorps vista. full bio christopher lett field producer based atlanta. comes cnn americorps vista volunteered community service coordinator. breaking news far flung locations find studio painting deep sea fishing.
doug criss, cnn updated 4:01 et, thu september 21, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)be prepared. secret santa probably disappoint year, cause secret santa isn't bill gates. (cnn)be prepared. secret santa probably disappoint year, cause secret santa isn't bill gates. reddit user named aerrix says world's richest man -- worth cool $75 billion, case you've forgotten -- sent gifts last week reddit's secret santa gift exchange. gifts awesome, little bit excited it. know half words post wrote caps. aerrix wrote getting mysterious box -- "freakin' huge box," called -- opening seeing picture gates santa hat top, calling husband blurting news -- "bill gates freakin santa!!!!!!!" -- course, going unwrapping gifts pure joy. loved them, gates, microsoft founder philanthropist, homework. see, aerrix loves stuff like video games legend zelda. says reddit gifts profile page, gates obviously read, loaded kinds goodies like: matching zelda mittens dog ... minecraft edition xbox one (with three wireless controllers) ... harry potter slippers ... cajun cookbooks (because she's southern louisiana hasn't forgotten roots) ... legend zelda master sword (it's made paper) ... photoshopped picture aerrix, husband gates cute pie zelda frame. gates wasn't done, wrote. also made donation name code.org, helps students learn computer science. "which awesome it's something near dear heart husband programmer brother degree computer science!" wrote. secret santa stuff nothing new gates though. he's since least 2013. he's celebrity santa thing. celebs like alyssa milano snoop dogg also taken part reddit's secret santa exchange. makes wonder next year ... warren buffett reddit?
kristen holmes national correspondent cnn newsource, cnn's network 1,000 affiliates. based cnn's washington, d.c. bureau. full bio kristen holmes national correspondent cnn newsource, cnn's network 1,000 affiliates. based cnn's washington, d.c. bureau. holmes first joined cnn intern piers morgan live graduating columbia's graduate school journalism. internship, became editorial producer lead jake tapper, cnn producer white house cnn producer embedded 2016 trump campaign. washington, d.c., also worked producer several projects katie couric yahoo news channel 8. holmes graduated bachelors science northwestern university spent two years elementary school teacher chicago teach america.
eliott c. mclaughlin devon m. sayers, cnn updated 8:42 pm et, tue august 9, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)a north carolina man said "on neighborhood watch" fatally shot 20-year-old inside garage telling 911 dispatcher protecting family "hoodlums," according raleigh police. (cnn)a north carolina man said "on neighborhood watch" fatally shot 20-year-old inside garage telling 911 dispatcher protecting family "hoodlums," according raleigh police. chad copley, 39, charged death kouren-rodney bernard thomas, police said outside copley's home shot 1 a.m. sunday. copley held without bond wake county detention center, police said. thomas african-american. copley white. police said copley used shotgun, haven't disclosed type shotgun ammo used. news & observer raleigh reported monday glass copley's yard driveway blast traveling one home's windows. also blood stains bloody gauze feet street, newspaper reported. wearing red prison jumpsuit, copley entered courtroom monday winked family gallery. judge assigned capital defenders office defend copley. office told cnn raymond tarlton would represent copley. tarlton's office issued brief statement saying preliminary stages investigation cautioning rush judgment. "we seen many wrongful convictions anyone organization jump conclusions basis someone charged," statement said. trayvon martin redux? though appears evidence physical altercation copley thomas, case bears similarities shooting death trayvon martin, neighborhood watch volunteer george zimmerman killed unarmed teen sanford, florida, 2012. jury found zimmerman, claimed shot martin self-defense, guilty teen's death. much like martin case, sunday's shooting partially pieced together 911 calls. begins man calls police copley's two-story single-family home report "a bunch hoodlums racing." "i locked loaded," tells dispatcher. "i'm going outside secure neighborhood. need send pd quickly possible." dispatcher asks, "i'm sorry. you're going neighborhood, sir?" "i'm going secure neighborhood. i'm neighborhood watch. i'm going neighbors me. there's hoodlums racing street. it's 1 o'clock morning. there's several dozen them. firearms, we're going secure neighborhood. you, i'd send pd quickly possible." asked provide house number intersection, says "negative, ma'am. it's singleleaf, raleigh, north carolina. pd know at." 'i fired warning shot' another man calls 911 shortly thereafter report shooting. "someone shot house," caller tells dispatcher. asked name, caller hangs up. woman calls copley's home says she's upstairs children giving phone man acknowledges someone shot fired weapon, seems unsure whether shot hit anyone. "we lot people outside house yelling shouting profanities. yelled them, 'please leave premises.' showing firearm, fired warning shot got somebody got hit." "ok, somebody shot?" dispatcher asks. "well, don't know they're shot not, ma'am. fired warning shot like i'm supposed law. firearms, i'm trying protect family," man replies. dispatcher asks outside house, man says doesn't know there's party nearby home. back-and-forth interrupted sort commotion man orders dispatcher send police. "there frigging black males outside frigging house firearms. please send pd," says. 'i'm trying secure premises' another witness calls say someone shot arm front copley's home. again, commotion muddles audio. witness says 20-year-old victim shot arm, unconscious lying road. doesn't know fired shot, says. witnesses claim gunshot came inside home, person tells 911. dispatcher calls copley's home gather details, man made initial call tells dispatcher, "ma'am, don't know f***ing people. i'm trying secure premises. please send pd immediately." dispatcher says police way. man responds dispatcher "killing time," argues isn't wasting time someone else dispatching police. call appears end abruptly. thomas pronounced dead wakemed hospital raleigh, police said. 'he loves pink' jalen lewis, hosted party home, two doors copley's, night shooting, said victim one roughly 50 guests party, according cnn affiliate wtvd. didn't know thomas personally, said, didn't see anyone armed causing problems outside home night. lewis told wtvd never interacted copley seven years he's lived raleigh neighborhood. "the man's body right front mailbox," lewis told station, pointing copley's mailbox. "i don't know (thomas) threat garage." thomas' mother, munyir simone butler thomas, set gofundme page cover son's funeral costs. page, said thomas celebrating move new apartment night killed. "koury baby love him. loves pink want send well. fun, lovable, caring, good guy, overprotective mother loved ones general," wrote. "i ask reach heart help create celebration life koury." raleigh police don't know thomas anyone accompanying armed, said spokeswoman laura hourigan. police records show authorities called block -- party otherwise -- first call man told dispatcher going "secure neighborhood." whether copley acting neighborhood watch capacity, hourigan said many groups community, "unsure one registered group not."
haley draznin catherine e. shoichet, cnn updated 7:53 et, tue january 7, 2014 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. young man huddles thick gray blanket, pressed steam grate braces biting cold. assignment weekend, associated press photographer took photo show effects unusually cold weather sweeping across country. man, gave first name -- nick -- face crowd homeless people huddling stay warm washington street, blocks u.s. capitol. changed photograph appeared usa today sunday. hundreds miles away upstate new york town, man much face crowd. nicholas simmons missing. mother saw photo newspaper realized she'd found son. disappearance new year's day rochester, new york, man's face appeared local news reports last week police frantic family members searched him. police town greece, new york, said simmons, 20, disappeared new year's day home, driving away red buick wearing: plaid pajama pants, gray t-shirt sneakers. left wallet cell phone behind. family members authorities looking days without luck. leads without phone credit cards track him. "we couldn't lot things normally would missing person's case," said capt. patrick phelan greece police department. photo became answer simmons family's prayers. family learned photo public facebook page they'd set up, according article published rochester democrat & chronicle. simmons' sister, hannah simmons, sent message twitter usa today reporter natalie diblasio, wrote story. "please contact me," tweet read. "you wrote article usa today features picture missing brother." family members also reached ap photographer jacquelyn martin, captured image. communication simmons' family, diblasio, martin, greece police department helped washington metropolitan police track simmons. he's reunited family, police said. washington metro police officer araz alali said he's considered "missing person returned." facebook page, mother michelle simmons said stunned. "we going get home safe, far greatest example god's love divine intervention ever experienced," wrote, according democrat & chronicle. "i beyond able put words feeling." questions remain it's unclear simmons left home brought streets washington. according police, simmons fine physically distraught. taken george washington university hospital evaluation, phelan said. hospital declined comment, citing privacy restrictions. phelan said police told "discussion" simmons parents may made leave home. "there indication precursors believe would something like this," phelan said. police official described simmons normal 20-year-old living home parents working part-time jobs local fast food chains. day brother found, hannah simmons sent martin message appreciation twitter monday. "you saved family," wrote. "thank much." photographers take portraits people wouldn't otherwise
julian zelizer, cnn contributor updated 10:53 et, mon january 12, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. julian zelizer professor history public affairs princeton university new america fellow. author new book, "the fierce urgency now: lyndon johnson, congress battle great society." opinions expressed commentary solely author. (cnn)even greatest moments triumph, american presidents make decisions long run devastate legacies. julian zelizer professor history public affairs princeton university new america fellow. author new book, "the fierce urgency now: lyndon johnson, congress battle great society." opinions expressed commentary solely author. (cnn)even greatest moments triumph, american presidents make decisions long run devastate legacies. seen recent times, president george w. bush's decision invade iraq. classic example lyndon johnson's experience vietnam. fifty years ago, 89th congress convened january 1965 following johnson's landslide election victory sen. barry goldwater, lbj height political power. liberal democrats commanded huge majorities house senate. coalition southern democrats republicans lost much power. conservative republicans marginalized since nobody wanted look anything like protg barry goldwater. backing mass civil rights movement organized labor, white house determined push forward huge domestic agenda ranging medicare anti-poverty programs voting rights. bills would soon passing breathtaking pace nation saw washington remake social contract. months, johnson intensified america's involvement war communism vietnam -- war would prove disastrous, devastating arguably aspect presidency continues define anything else. previous year johnson already strengthened nation's commitment conflict southeast asia. president john f. kennedy increased number advisors working south vietnamese fight communist forces, johnson set groundwork much bigger intervention. didn't great confidence. one revealing white house recordings -- may 27, 1964 -- georgia sen. richard russell, southern hawk johnson's mentor, lengthy conversation men express doubts whether conflict essential cold war whether could ever won. russell said it's "damn worse mess ever saw." russell added, "i don't see ever going get without fighting major war...." "i don't know do," said johnson. regardless, political pressure johnson felt republicans attacking weak defense since agreed logic domino theory -- one country fell communism others would follow -- johnson requested congress authorize use force gulf tonkin resolution august 4, 1964. based weak evidence attack u.s. navy destroyers (johnson admitted attack, occurred, mistake result decision low-level commander), johnson worked arkansas sen. william fulbright convince democrats support resolution. resolution "like grandma's nightshirt," johnson said resolution, "it covers everything." fulbright assured colleagues needed pass resolution protect johnson republican attack. intended actually use full power deploy force conflict, fulbright said, would return congress approval. never did. february 15, 1965, lbj received encouragement former president handling situation. johnson told "having hell," including situation vietnam, president truman assured fine. johnson thought could learn truman handled problems korea. reminded truman senator sent letter support efforts korea, even republicans like ohio republican robert taft "raising hell" senate. johnson said "doing best can", "go kill boys hit back." truman, said handling challenges well, gave support, agreeing "bust nose every time get chance" "they understand language better kind." new year began democrats warned johnson make use resolution force. two days johnson spoke truman, vice president hubert humphrey implored president lengthy powerful memorandum pull out. humphrey argued that, first time, johnson didn't fear republicans attacking weak defense. liberals controlled congress great landslide electoral victory. could make bold move get conflict late. "politically," humphrey wrote, johnson administration stronger position administration history." johnson didn't listen humphrey's logic, still feared danger characterized weak defense like democrats 1952 lost control white house congress. democrats congress spoke lbj vietnam, became belligerent. isolated humphrey inner circle advisors foreign policy. dismissed criticism democrats warned giving propaganda support communists. hear tape one johnson's greatest allies senate, minority leader everett dirksen. february 17, 1965 , two men discussed speeches given idaho sen. frank church south dakota sen. george mcgovern. dirksen brought two men "teeing off" lbj's vietnamese policy. dirksen thought johnson needed defense "friend side aisle." johnson told dirksen former president dwight eisenhower, republican, fully supported him. johnson added kinds speeches church mcgovern making posed "worst problem" united states, raids ambushes military accidents, since speeches need negotiation withdrawal used communists pamphlets newspapers. statements undermined confidence south vietnamese government united states would continue support them. time spoke great bravado, admitted advisors fears concerns. february 26, lbj told secretary defense robert mcnamara: "i don't think anything going bad losing, don't see way winning...." march 6, many months haunting conversation could likely happen vietnam, johnson didn't sound much better. explaining preparing send marines conflict, johnson "getting worse" admitted that: "the great trouble i'm under, man fight see daylight road somewhere. ain't daylight vietnam." response russell said, "there's end road." month house passed sweeping version medicare medicaid congress prepared send education bill sign law, johnson got deeper one devastating military quagmires united states ever faced. johnson's fears pummeled right, combined adherence "domino theory" communism, would gradually drive deeper deeper disastrous war. presidents complex beings. sometimes qualities allow make great breakthroughs public policy, greatly improve condition country, also allow implement decisions become highly destructive.  read cnnopinion's new flipboard magazine. follow us twitter @cnnopinion. join us facebook.com/cnnopinion.
eric bradner, cnn updated 9:38 pm et, thu december 10, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. washington (cnn)it took 20 minutes sgt. bowe bergdahl realize he'd made grave mistake departing army unit afghanistan middle june 2009 night. washington (cnn)it took 20 minutes sgt. bowe bergdahl realize he'd made grave mistake departing army unit afghanistan middle june 2009 night. armed knives aware he'd face serious punishment -- perhaps even shot, identity mistaken approached outpost -- turned back. "i'm going, 'good grief, i'm head,'" bergdahl said "serial" podcast released thursday. "suddenly, really starts sink really something bad. or, bad, really something serious," said. set gather intelligence mimic film idol: jason bourne. decided collect intelligence taliban hopes would help eventually return u.s. military something show absence. "doing saying like, don't know, jason bourne," bergdahl told mark boal, filmmaker whose interviews army private first class make second season "serial." "i fantastic idea going prove world real thing," bergdahl said. "you know, could guys go movies watch movies -- want -- wanted prove that." didn't work. bergdahl, armed knife, said quickly captured taliban fighters motorcycles, starting would nearly five years captivity -- ended president barack obama swapped five taliban detainees held guantanamo bay detention facility bergdahl's freedom may 2014. bergdahl could face court martial charges could lead sentence life prison. he's assigned administrative army job san antonio. boal, filmmaker wrote produced "the hurt locker" "zero dark thirty," conducted 25 hours interviews bergdahl. podcast's creator, sarah koenig, said second season focus largely interviews. four interesting tidbits first episode, titled "dustwun" -- "duty status -- whereabouts unknown." -- bergdahl said rebelling "leadership failures" outpost hoped departure would provoke investigations creating crisis. bergdahl said feared "the lives guys standing next danger something seriously going wrong." -- quickly realized couldn't fight taliban. line five motorcycles taliban members riding found walked along road open desert, six seven riders armed ak-47s. "all knife. i'm stupid enough try knife bunch guys ak-47s," said. -- held grim conditions taliban. said "standing empty, dark room hurts -- physically, that. it's mental. you're almost confused," said, adding would wake dark unable see hands. -- bergdahl pushed back claims soldiers he'd left note behind expressing disillusionment, saying he'd left note. signaled could oppose elements version events departure made public far.
jim sciutto cnn's chief national security correspondent based washington, d.c. reports provides analysis across network's programs platforms aspects u.s. national security, including foreign policy, military intelligence community. full bio jim sciutto cnn's chief national security correspondent based washington, d.c. reports provides analysis across network's programs platforms aspects u.s. national security, including foreign policy, military intelligence community. sciutto frequently reports overseas, including charlie hebdo paris terrorist attacks france violent elections ukraine. traveled asia, europe middle east senior u.s. leaders well tehran u.s. iran began implementing historic nuclear agreement. twice interviewed iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif, including securing iran's first reaction president barack obama's 2014 state union remarks. prior joining cnn, sciutto served abc news' senior foreign correspondent, based primarily london later, washington. role, reported 50 countries across globe. extensive coverage included dozens assignments inside iraq, afghanistan iran. sciutto also author book driving forces behind islamic radicalization, us: new face america's enemies muslim world. sciutto's one-hour cnn special, targeting terror: inside intelligence war, recognized 2016 headliner award documentaries. reporting iran 2009 election protests earned edward r. murrow award. also awarded george polk award citation excellence overseas press club undercover reporting myanmar, bucked government restrictions tell stories country's repressive regime. reporting series iraq: things stand recognized emmy award two consecutive years. sciutto also served chief staff senior advisor u.s. ambassador china, gary locke. prior abc news, served hong kong-based correspondent asia business news. sciutto began career moderator producer weekly public affairs talk show pbs. graduated yale university bachelor's degree chinese history. jim married gloria riviera-sciutto, washington correspondent abc news. follow jim twitter @jimsciutto
ryan browne, cnn updated 2:05 pm et, wed october 4, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)forces aligned syrian president bashar al-assad made incursion wednesday 55km "de-confliction zone" surrounding us base located tanf garrison southeastern syria, according us-led military coalition fighting isis. (cnn)forces aligned syrian president bashar al-assad made incursion wednesday 55km "de-confliction zone" surrounding us base located tanf garrison southeastern syria, according us-led military coalition fighting isis. "there incursion de-confliction zone," coalition spokesman us army col. ryan dillon told cnn, adding pro-regime troops entered zone, us-led coalition used pre-established de-confliction hotline communicated incursion russians. following communication, pro-regime forces withdrew. apparent successful use de-confliction channel comes amid new accusations russia us military aiding isis. incident comes day russian ministry defense said us "the main problem" preventing defeat isis syria," accusing us military providing "support overtures" isis. ministry's statement said isis fighters attacked syrian regime checkpoints located alongside highway palmyra deir ezzor isis fighters launched attack de-confliction zone surrounding tanf. "the mentioned terrorist attacks common feature -- conducted 50-kilometer zone round settlement al-tanf, (near the) syrian-jordan boarder. site 'us military mission' deployed," russian ministry defense said. russians added air forces "ready" strike area around tanf eliminate groups attacked regime outposts. dillon rejected russian claims, saying us-led coalition's goals "to kill isis compel surrender," adding coalition negotiate terror group. also denied idea isis fighters able operate area surrounding tanf. "we hyper aware inside tanf near forces" dillon said, saying coalition would go kill isis fighters wherever were. coalition officials said us troops continue conduct patrols area use base train local anti-isis fighters. group fighters left tanf july due coalition's insistence fight isis regime assad, opting leave conduct independent operations regime. cnn previously reported pro-regime forces established number outposts checkpoints area outside de-confliction" zone surrounding tanf, buffer area negotiated russia us-led coalition. us officials told cnn believe pro-regime militias backed iran setting series checkpoints part effort establish strategic overland route iran mediterranean coast sought eject coalition troops tanf facilitate goal, seeking encourage us-backed local fighters defect regime conducting probing activities around base nearby coalition combat outposts. coalition recently shuttered razed outposts near tanf denied closure part arrangement russia regime. proximity two sets forces led clashes june, including us airstrikes regime forces encroached zone us f-15 jets shooting two pro-regime drones perceived pose threat local allies coalition advisers. russian accusations us support isis comes us boosted surveillance syria following russian airstrike us-backed forces amid russian threats us troops local allies. russian ministry defense issued warning last month forces would retaliate us-backed syrian democratic forces us military advisers forces accompanying syrian regime troops come attack. ministry issued statement saying already "the syrian democratic forces us special operations forces twice targeted syrian troops mortars rocket artillery."
andrew kaczynski nathan mcdermott, cnn updated 4:12 pm et, thu june 29, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)donald trump's tweet thursday attacking msnbc anchor mika brzezinski latest long line disparaging jabs hurled prominent women. (cnn)donald trump's tweet thursday attacking msnbc anchor mika brzezinski latest long line disparaging jabs hurled prominent women. president referred brzezinski "low i.q. crazy mika" said "bleeding badly face-lift" came visit around new year's eve. tweet, drew swift widespread condemnation, fits larger pattern trump, history viciously going women's appearances mental health. campaign, called then-fox anchor megyn kelly "crazy" described first gop presidential debate "blood coming eyes, blood coming wherever."he also tweeted unflattering photo ted cruz's wife, heidi cruz, threatened "spill beans" without explaining meant. pattern behavior put public display years campaigned president. long-running feud comedian rosie o'donnell mid-2000s, trump repeatedly ridiculed o'donnell weight even attacked struggle depression. "she announced last week suffers depression," trump told audience learning annex 2007. "they called comment, rather saying 'i comment' 'isn't bad oh, that's bad,' said, 'i think cure depression,'  heard this. 'if stopped looking mirror, think she'd stop depressed.'" speech, trump said "politically correct bullshit" people would call o'donnell fat. "this slob, i'm allowed use word fat. say, 'he used fat word.' know much worse words," said. "it's funny, called degenerate, called worst things, nobody cared." added, "but go today show meredith vieira, 'donald true?' -- like two weeks ago supposed talking apprentice. said, 'is true called rosie crude?' said, 'no, called degenerate. didn't call crude, it's strong enough.' goes, 'but call fat?' said, 'let ask question meredith. fat?' 'i'd rather comment.' believe bullshit? politically correct bullshit, ok?" o'donnell would go describe trump's attacks "the bullying ever experienced life," telling people magazine 2014: "it national, sanctioned societally. whether deserved interpretation." years, trump would make disparaging comments women "the howard stern show." discussing actress nicollette sheridan 2005, trump said, "a person flat-chested hard 10." also attacked model-turned-reality tv star anna nicole smith's lips days 2007 episode death, saying, "it disgusting thing look big fat pumped tires." twitter, trump lashed media executive arianna huffington, tweeting 2012, ".@ariannahuff unattractive inside out. fully understand former husband left man- made good decision." 2015, hit again, tweeting, "how much money extremely unattractive (both inside out) arianna huffington paying poor ex-hubby use name?" 2012, also twitter, trump went singer cher, writing, ".@cher--i don't wear 'rug'it's mine. promise talk massive plastic surgeries didn't work." trump also said double standard actress bette midler could talk hair, couldn't attack "ugly face body." ".@bettemidler talks hair i'm allowed talk ugly face body --- won't. double standard?" asked twitter 2012. "while @bettemidler extremely unattractive woman, refuse say always insist politically correct," added another tweet. live-tweeting oscars 2014, trump said kim novak, "i'm real hard time watching academy awards (so far). last song terrible! kim sue plastic surgeon! #oscars" novak said tweet devastated her. trump later expressed regret comment, tweeted: "i always big fan kim novak still ama wonderful actress."
carol costello, anchor updated 8:51 et, mon september 11, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. carol costello host "across america carol costello" hln. views expressed commentary own. (cnn)are ready football? join us twitter facebook carol costello host "across america carol costello" hln. views expressed commentary own. (cnn)are ready football? join us twitter facebook sure am, little loyal (always-disappointed) detroit lions fan. -- else? politics. athletes long impact political world -- jim brown muhammad ali come mind, recent over-infusion bitter partisan politics football is, well, overwhelming. starts espn's decision reinstate hank williams sing monday night football song. love hank "brings it," every time hear sing think said president barack obama: "we've got muslim president hates cowboys, hates cowgirls, hates fishing, hates farming, loves gays, hate him!" espn claims bringing williams iconic song -- "all rowdy friends" -- give fans want. official statement, espn wrote, "it's monday night party, that's we're hoping get back to." can't help wonder espn re-hiring williams many people allege network liberal agenda comes recent announcer decisions made. nfl horse game, it's likely deliriously happy that. it's clear nfl commissioner roger goodell trying punt comes admitting politics play sport. consider cowardly remark -- "i'm football expert" answer -- asked address colin kaepernick controversy evidence. kaepernick, know, started kneeling national anthem last year protest police brutality. come on, commissioner, it's clear kaepernick playing today politics divisive team owners. address it? all, according washington post/umass lowell poll, 19% pro football fans say interest declined recent years. 24% say politics blame. christine brennan, great usa today sports columnist cnn contributor, told ain't seen nothin' yet. "i think protests worse season -- it's generation cares about. players playing youth," said. look happened cleveland weeks ago. dozen players, including white player, took knee national anthem preseason game new york giants. "there's lot racial social injustices world going right now," rookie safety jabrill peppers said. "we decided take knee pray people affected pray world general." it's lovely sentiment reflects millennial generation, perhaps americans. steve loomis, head one cleveland's police unions, says brothers sisters participate pregame flag ceremony browns' home opener management can't control players' behavior. "their politics ignorant," loomis told hln. "it's based false narrative white police officers murdering unarmed black people record rates." never mind cleveland police settled 26 lawsuits paid $13 million police misconduct since officer mistakenly shot tamir rice, 12-year-old wielded toy gun 2014. could delve seahawk michael bennett's recent allegations las vegas police profiled floyd mayweather-conor mcgregor boxing match -- police union's insistence nfl investigate "take appropriate action" bennett. won't. suffice say politics infects every facet lives -- including football. shouldn't america's sport place refuge political deluge? journalist supports first amendment rights, i'm psyched league socially engaged. fan? i'll admit it: part wants drink beer watch detroit lions break heart yet again. get ready politics-infused football, whether you're ready not.
nathan mcdermott reporter member cnn's kfile  leading investigation team social, mobile generation. full bio nathan mcdermott reporter member cnn's kfile  leading investigation team social, mobile generation. kfile widely praised "scoop team," known breaking news scouring internet research, fact checking, investigative reporting. prior joining cnn, mcdermott political reporter covering 2016 election buzzfeed. there, became known unearthing newsworthy archival videos audio, many later went viral. mcdermott received bachelor's degree international studies american university, earned master's degree journalism columbia university's graduate school journalism. originally houston, texas, mcdermott recently moved washington d.c. new york city, currently resides works.
sandra gonzalez, cnn updated 5:43 pm et, mon september 4, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)"i think ever it's important strive creative possible, use voice, use platform, express yourself. it's important keep art alive." (cnn)"i think ever it's important strive creative possible, use voice, use platform, express yourself. it's important keep art alive." mandy moore, best known making music, makes us cry nbc's breakout hit "this us," series one talented ensembles tv seen time. still, among cast scene-stealers, moore shows dramatic strengths mother-of-three rebecca, woman juggles family's needs hopes dreams navigating turbulent marriage. 33, moore done lot growing since days singing "candy," she's found chapter career that's even sweeter. cnn wants hear you. first time saw woman television identified with? see told her.
gary tuchman cnn national correspondent based atlanta, joined network 1990. full bio gary tuchman cnn national correspondent based atlanta, joined network 1990. staff correspondent anderson cooper 360 program. tuchman covered biggest stories times years cnn. arrived japan morning devastating earthquake tsunami reported hard hit towns japan's northeast coast. also spent months haiti covering earthquake killed 300 thousand people. live reports morning quake amid rubble proved stunning viewers around world then, way knowing intensity devastation. quakes, tuchman copiapo, chile, covering rescue 33 chile miners trapped underground. reported live rescue site miners triumphantly raised safety. earlier 2010, tuchman one international reporters able get iceland report first hand volcanic eruption led cancellation thousands flights across globe. tuchman flew erupting eyjafjallajokull volcano helicopter. video taken hundred yards west (the winds blowing east) gave viewers incredible look power eruption. tuchman also spent part 2010 reporting documentary pope knew. documentary provided evidence cardinal joseph ratzinger, pope benedict, direct knowledge priests committed sexual molestations protected church. tuchman also spent much time border regions mexico, reporting drug war grotesque violence goes along it. also done many stories polygamist cult known flds (fundamentalist church jesus christ latter-day saints), child sexual abuse practiced many within sect. 2008 election, spent weeks alaska; investigating covering gop vice presidential candidate sarah palin. also spent time trail reporting john mccain barack obama. covered inauguration obama also provided live reports one night's inaugural balls. 2007, tuchman became one reporters allowed coal mine search rescue operation. drama crandall canyon mine turned tragic. miners die, rescuers (including one trained tuchman trip mine) killed days later another collapse. tuchman spent much summer fall 2005 covering hurricanes katrina, rita wilma louisiana, mississippi, florida texas. 2003, tuchman reported embedded journalist u.s. air force war iraq, arriving days war began. also went back iraq 2006; going missions members u.s. air force. 2002, tuchman traveled afghanistan; spending weeks reporting throughout country. covered nation's first "loya jirga" since fall taliban; traditional way afghans selected new leaders. tuchman covered u.s. presidential elections years he's cnn. day sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, tuchman began reporting ground zero new york city, providing constant updates detailed descriptions devastation. additionally, covered tragedy space shuttle columbia disaster, d.c.-area sniper case, anthrax scare, crash twa flight 800, capture unabomber montana. recently, tuchman's reporting contributed two 2011 emmy awards ac 360's haiti earthquake coverage. nominated 2010 emmy award reporting scandal texas police officers steal minority motorists. tuchman's reporting also contributed 2010 george foster peabody award coverage gulf oil spill; 2009 peabody award coverage presidential primary contests, 2005 peabody award hurricane katrina coverage, 1996 emmy award coverage oklahoma city bombing. joining cnn, tuchman worked five years anchor reporter wpec-tv, cbs affiliate west palm beach, fla., specialized political reporting. wpec-tv, tuchman series intifada gaza strip west bank received emmy award nomination series. working wpec-tv, tuchman served primary anchor reporter wboc-tv, cbs affiliate salisbury, md. tuchman received several associated press awards wpec-tv excellence documentary, enterprise spot news reporting. tuchman earned bachelor science degree broadcast journalism boston university. 2003, university honored distinguished alumni award.
elizabeth warren updated 6:34 et, sun october 1, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. elizabeth warren, democrat, senior senator massachusetts. views expressed own. (cnn)president donald trump, loud persistent critic north american free trade agreement (nafta), recently began renegotiating trade deal canada mexico. president promised secure fair deal american workers. sounds great. all, don't think americans forced compete poorly paid workers mexico elsewhere, demand companies want trade us lift wages, benefits, health safety standards foreign workers. join us twitter facebook elizabeth warren, democrat, senior senator massachusetts. views expressed own. (cnn)president donald trump, loud persistent critic north american free trade agreement (nafta), recently began renegotiating trade deal canada mexico. president promised secure fair deal american workers. sounds great. all, don't think americans forced compete poorly paid workers mexico elsewhere, demand companies want trade us lift wages, benefits, health safety standards foreign workers. join us twitter facebook probably came shock one canada's main goals renegotiation get united states treat workers better. canada doesn't want workers competing poorly-treated laborers -- including workers united states. specific target mind. according canada's major newspaper globe mail, canadian negotiators urging united states roll back so-called state "right work" laws undercut worker power us. i'm glad we're renegotiating nafta raw deal american workers. canadians giving america wake-up call. negotiations continue, united states take close look broken labor policies hurting american workers -- fix them. canadians focused so-called "right-to-work" laws, state regulations make union dues optional even unions bargain represent workers. state laws powerful weapon war working people. twenty-eight states passed laws, whose main purpose make harder workers resources need stand themselves. laws starving unions resources, union leaders face uphill battle try help workers join together advocate higher wages benefits. completely predictable consequences workers states devastating. strong unions lift wages workers -- even workers aren't union members. union membership sharply lower "right-to-work" states -- all, whole point laws. impact clear: "right-to-work" states, wages lower employees less likely access employer-provided health care pensions -- that's true union nonunion employees. decline unionization last 30 years hollowed america's middle class. 40 million nonunion people america's private workforce, lost wages add $109 billion every year. unemployment declined corporate profits gone up, workers don't kind bargaining power unions created. instead strengthening rights working people, trump administration pushed opposite direction. since taking office, president trump signed several laws directly undermine wages, benefits, health safety american workers. president republican congress rolled back rules designed make sure federal contractors don't cheat workers hard-earned wages. they've delayed safety standards keep workers exposed lethal carcinogenic materials. they've given shady financial advisers extra months cheat hardworking americans billions retirement savings. list goes on. assault america's workers didn't start president trump. decades, armies lawyers lobbyists represent handful giant corporations pressed federal state governments pursue policies maximize corporate profits expense health, safety, financial security workers. time, laws taken toll. now, instead looking america example workers enjoy best pay, best benefits, best working conditions world, trading partners complaining working conditions america falling standards. nation cares workers shouldn't need foreign negotiators sound alarm. it's national embarrassment -- spur us action. that's earlier last week introduced bill repealing provision national labor relations act allows states implement "right-to-work" laws. giant companies become accustomed squeezing every last dime profit workers "right-to-work" states fight effort improve workers' rights. let's clear: don't allow corporations exploit workers negotiate trade deals countries like colombia panama. renegotiate nafta, shouldn't allow exploit workers canada mexico, either. all, must let exploit workers home.
ana cabrera based new york anchors weekend primetime edition cnn newsroom. full bio ana cabrera based new york anchors weekend primetime edition cnn newsroom. cabrera joined cnn correspondent 2013, based denver. recently part cnn investigative team revealed systemic failures reporting, investigating tracking alleged sexual abuse elderly living facilities. covered unrest ferguson following shooting michael brown. cabrera landed exclusive interview st. louis county prosecuting attorney grand jury hearing case police chief following long-awaited public apology. also extensive enterprise reporting marijuana legalization movement, exploring everything economic impact, regulatory issues, health concerns. pesticide investigation resulted recall thousands pot products colorado. prior joining cnn, cabrera anchor top-ranked daily morning news program kmgh-tv 7 news, abc affiliate denver, covered local national news including aurora movie theater shooting, 2012 denver presidential debate election. earned emmy award in-the-field anchoring part 7 news morning team honored high park fire coverage 2012. 7 news morning team also honored associated press tv radio association's annual mark twain award best morning show broadcast 2013. january 2005 july 2009, cabrera anchor reporter nbc affiliate khq-tv fox affiliate kayu-tv spokane, washington. cabrera began broadcasting career intern denver's cbs affiliate kcnc-tv kmgh-tv. cabrera served board directors mi casa resource center served board american cancer society. also speaks local schools students interested broadcasting career. cabrera graduate edward r. murrow college communication washington state university degrees communication, foreign languages cultures.
chris moody senior digital correspondent cnn, reports cnn politics, cnn money, cnn travel more. full bio chris moody senior digital correspondent cnn, reports cnn politics, cnn money, cnn travel more. moody started covering politics 2010 washington, dc, chronicled lawmakers capitol hill. covered 2012 presidential race yahoo news, traveling president obama mitt romney appeared regularly fox news, msnbc cnn. joined cnn 2014 cover presidential race, interviewed donald trump several presidential contenders. team's election coverage earned edward r. murrow award webby award 2017 cnn political video series, "being moody" recognized multiple awards white house news photographers association. work cited new york times, wall street journal, washington post, time, g.q. magazine, abc news many news outlets. moody's reporting career began palm beach atlantic university, senior writer beacon student publication. student pba, covered u.s. congress scripps howard news wire washington, d.c., interned wptv channel 5 west palm beach.
sara murray cnn white house correspondent based washington, d.c. covering 2016 presidential campaign. full bio sara murray cnn white house correspondent based washington, d.c. covering 2016 presidential campaign. murray joined cnn 2015 cover expansive republican field serves one lead reporters covering donald trump. murray joined cnn wall street journal, recently served anchor digital network new york. prior joining video team, covered mitt romney's 2012 presidential bid, shedding light inner workings campaign's high command breaking news candidate's private comments high-dollar donors. tenure wall street journal, murray covered congress's unsuccessful attempt overhaul u.s. immigration system 2013. also spent years following 2008 financial crisis economic fallout ensued. murray born raised mt. pleasant. mich., graduated university maryland. resides washington, d.c., fianc garrett haake rescue pup, shiner.
mark preston, cnn updated 4:51 pm et, wed december 14, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)ronna romney mcdaniel president-elect donald trump's choice become republican national committee chair next year, rnc said wednesday. (cnn)ronna romney mcdaniel president-elect donald trump's choice become republican national committee chair next year, rnc said wednesday. romney mcdaniel, currently chairwoman michigan republican party niece 2012 gop nominee mitt romney, succeed current rnc chair reince priebus, tapped trump's chief staff. "i'm excited highly effective leader ronna mcdaniel rnc deputy chair, look forward serving party's chairman 2017," trump said statement. republican national committee members need ratify romney mcdaniel new chair meets january, tradition incoming president choose head national party.
andrew kaczynski chris massie, cnn updated 10:25 et, wed september 20, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)alabama us senate candidate roy moore's foundation shared video facebook page 2015 uses out-of-context video clips then-president barack obama promote conspiracy theory obama muslim. (cnn)alabama us senate candidate roy moore's foundation shared video facebook page 2015 uses out-of-context video clips then-president barack obama promote conspiracy theory obama muslim. foundation moral law, non-profit christian legal organization moore founded early 2000s, shared video titled "obama muslim, words" november 18, 2015. moore currently holds title president emeritus foundation. originally posted group britain first, far-right british nationalist organization describes goals "restore christianity bedrock foundation national life," citing "the rapid growth militant islam." moore's wife, kayla moore, served president foundation since 2013, also shared video personal facebook wall friends roy moore facebook group day foundation shared video. opening closing ominous music, video presents version widespread baseless conspiracy theory obama, christian, secretly muslim. video shows then-president praising historical legacy islamic faith contributions muslims united states american culture, displaying text asking ever praised america christianity "similar glowing words." video also features selectively edited quotes commonly used promote conspiracy theory. include obama's statement turkish parliament 2009, referring impact muslims life childhood years living indonesia, "many americans muslims families lived muslim-majority country--i know, one them." another remark, address muslim world cairo 2009, speech features heavily video shared moore's foundation, obama shown saying, "so known islam three continents coming region first revealed. experience guides conviction..." cuts finishes sentence, clarifies conviction "that partnership america islam must based islam is, isn't." video concludes showing hijacked planes striking world trade center 9/11, followed obama saying, "thank eid eh shoma mobarak," means "happy new year" farsi. reached phone, moore told cnn's kfile worked foundation years, said video reflect personal views. asked reflected wife's views, said, "sir, can't speak people. campaign nothing obama. he's president. kind ridiculous." asked wife wanted comment directly, said moment directed reporter contact campaign chairman. representatives foundation moral law respond requests comment. representative moore's campaign also respond comment request. previously reported cnn's kfile, moore fueled debunked "birther" conspiracy movement, saying recently december 2016 "personal belief" obama wasn't natural-born citizen united states. started questioning obama's birthplace 2008, called "major investigation" obama's citizenship interview far-right website world net daily. questioned obama's birthplace 2009 interview conservative internet radio host andrew shea king, saying "very strange indeed" president shown birth certificate. made similar comments following year. 2011, hawaii officials released long form obama's birth certificate then-president's request, showing obama indeed born hawaii.
greg botelho holly yan, cnn updated 11:50 et, sun july 14, 2013 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. george zimmerman never denied shooting trayvon martin, said self defense. late saturday night, florida jury found guilty teenager's death. verdict caps case inflamed passions well year, much focused race. six jurors -- women -- deliberated 16 hours. five women white; one minority. heard fate, zimmerman little visible reaction. turned shook hand one attorneys sitting back down, smiling court adjourned. martin's parents, tracy martin sybrina fulton, courtroom decision announced. shared emotions twitter shortly afterward. "even though broken hearted faith unshattered always love baby tray," tracy martin tweeted. martin's dad: heart broken zimmerman's brother, robert zimmerman jr., said words can't express relieved family is. "having said that, don't think time high-fiving," brother said. "i acknowledge -- acknowledged -- mr. martin, trayvon martin, lost life. (but) act murder. act manslaughter." decision jury three choices: find zimmerman guilty second-degree murder; find guilty lesser charge manslaughter; find guilty. second-degree murder, jurors would believe martin's unlawful killing "done ill will, hatred, spite evil intent" would "of nature act indicates indifference human life." led jurors verdict? convict zimmerman manslaughter, jurors would believe "intentionally committed act acts caused death trayvon martin." charge could carried sentence 30 years prison, though jury told possible sentence. ultimately, believed zimmerman wasn't guilty either charge. none jurors wanted speak media verdict. call calm sides case asked peace verdict. immediate aftermath, appeared gotten wish -- even though internet erupted outrage. zimmerman free man, defense brother fear safety. "he cautious protective safety still fringe element said, least tweets everything else, want revenge -- listen verdict guilty," defense attorney mark o'mara said. anger, sadness little surprise robert zimmerman jr. said brother "is going looking around shoulder rest life." asked george zimmerman keep gun used shoot trayvon martin, brother said good reason to. "i think reason ever think people trying kill express they're trying kill him, time, every day, twitter feed, internet," robert zimmerman told cnn's piers morgan. "he always feared safety." crump said everyone stay calm, especially martin's sake. "for trayvon rest peace, must peaceful." race debate trial may over, race debate surrounding case rages on. "the whole world looking case reason ... we'd intellectually dishonest didn't acknowledge racial undertones case," martin family attorney benjamin crump said. "so responsible conversations get better country move forward tragedy learn it." prosecutor angela corey said martin unfairly viewed criminal shot. analysis: role race played amid national debate whether zimmerman racially profiled martin, defense attorney o'mara suggested client actually profiled critics. "i think things would different george zimmerman black reason: never would charged crime," o'mara said. said country "absolutely" needs conversation whether young black males treated differently criminal justice system -- said conversation separate topic happened night zimmerman martin met. sports stars sound verdict martin family attorney natalie jackson commended millions people signed online petition "not effort persecute george zimmerman, effort say black 17-year-old child able walk home store shot." said efforts vain. "i don't want discouraged think may saved life another child," jackson said. "i think on, someone wants follow someone gun, think they'll think twice it." fateful night deadly encounter took place february 26, 2012, martin walked back father's fiancee's house rain sanford convenience store. 17-year-old carrying skittles drink. zimmerman, neighborhood watch volunteer, spotted called police. 911 dispatcher told zimmerman officers way follow allegedly suspicious person. zimmerman still got car, later telling police wanted get definitive address relay authorities. sometime that, zimmerman martin got physical altercation. questions later arose aggressor, whether martin may seen reached zimmerman's gun, whether zimmerman injuries pummeled, claims. prosecutors never accused zimmerman, identifies hispanic, racist. argue wrongly spitefully prejudged martin one "f***ing punks," he's heard saying breath call police. "the defendant didn't shoot trayvon martin to," assistant state attorney john guy said. "he shot wanted to. that's bottom line." defense contended martin jumped bushes pounced zimmerman walking back toward car night, punched slammed head repeatedly concrete sidewalk. zimmerman's account happened night shooting central part trial. living person witnessed entire incident, wasn't much physical evidence either team fall back on. what's next? naacp called justice department file civil rights charges zimmerman urged public sign petition support effort. feds asked act "the fundamental civil rights -- right life -- violated night george zimmerman stalked took life trayvon martin," advocacy group said statement. o'mara said anyone tries sue zimmerman, "we seek get civil immunity civil hearing. see many civil lawsuits spawned fiasco." now, families reflect try move forward. "trayvon martin forever remain annals history next medgar evers emmett till symbols fight equal justice all," crump said. asked say trayvon martin's parents, robert zimmerman jr. said understands pain. "there winners. win lose anything already lost, son's life, kind verdict george," robert zimmerman said. "i applaud asking verdict respected. ... pray them."
nathan mcdermott, cnn updated 2:52 pm et, fri november 11, 2016 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. (cnn)milwaukee county sheriff david clarke said interview thursday open serving trump administration position offered. it's incredible institutions gov, wh, congress, doj, big media corrupt & bitch. pitchforks torches time pic.twitter.com/8g5g0dagvn (cnn)milwaukee county sheriff david clarke said interview thursday open serving trump administration position offered. it's incredible institutions gov, wh, congress, doj, big media corrupt & bitch. pitchforks torches time pic.twitter.com/8g5g0dagvn interview radio host joe pags, clarke asked expecting role trump's white house. "i don't expect anything, don't entitlement mentality," clarke said. "i told donald trump wanted help him, thought country needed leadership. said, president asks serve, step fulfill duty. feels help calls me, sure i'll accept it, i'm expecting anything." clarke surrogate trump presidential campaign known tough crime positions unapologetically blunt comments. clarke, african american, also made news campaign opposition black lives matter activists, predicted would join forces isis. buzzfeed politico reported clarke consideration become next secretary homeland security. also interview, clarke criticized activists protesting election results, calling anarchists don't support rule law, though clarke made news last month told supporters "pitchfork torches time" tweet. "when barack obama '08 barack obama 2012, disappointed, lot people. didn't take streets, didn't riot, didn't even protest," clarke said.
jennifer gray meteorologist cnn based atlanta network's global headquarters. full bio jennifer gray meteorologist cnn based atlanta network's global headquarters earned ams seal approval american meteorology society. prior joining cnn, gray weekend morning show meteorologist feature reporter wtvj, nbc affiliate miami, covered severe weather field helped produce specials focused hurricane preparedness safety. co-hosted co-produced 'florida insider fishing report' sun sports 'beyond reef' conjunction guy harvey ocean foundation, raising awareness conservation issues facing oceans florida's fisheries. previously, gray meteorologist ktbs 3, abc affiliate shreveport, louisiana; kbtv 4, nbc affiliate beaumont, texas. time, covered hurricanes, tornados, record heat waves, ice storms flooding; reported live events, including super bowl xliv. gray earned bachelor's science geosciences, broadcast meteorology program mississippi state, earned bachelor arts broadcast journalism northwestern state university louisiana.
ralph ellis, faith karimi chris lett, cnn updated 8:32 pm et, mon september 21, 2015 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. san antonio, texas (cnn)the army general led investigation sgt. bowe bergdahl's actions afghanistan testified friday jail time would "inappropriate" soldier captured held five years taliban. cnn's chris lett reported san antonio, texas. cnn's faith karami, ashley fantz, martin savidge, ralph ellis tristan smith contributed report. san antonio, texas (cnn)the army general led investigation sgt. bowe bergdahl's actions afghanistan testified friday jail time would "inappropriate" soldier captured held five years taliban. cnn's chris lett reported san antonio, texas. cnn's faith karami, ashley fantz, martin savidge, ralph ellis tristan smith contributed report. maj. gen. kenneth dahl said interviewed bowe day half "did find evidence corroborate reporting bergdahl ... sympathetic taliban." instead, dahl said, bergdahl wanted call attention considered poor leadership unit. bergdal believed leaving observation post running 23 kilometers (about 14 miles) nearby base could cause stir gain access high-ranking officer complain, dahl said. dahl testified army article 32 preliminary hearing held determine whether bergdahl face court-martial. case goes court-martial found guilty, bergdahl faces potential maximum penalty life prison. bowe bergdahl investigation leader says gi face jail time bergdahl testify, defense attorney eugene fidell told military court joint base san antonio. bergdahl vanished june 2009 deserting unit, authorities said. incident set series events included five-year capture taliban. president barack obama later freed five members terror network held guantanamo bay, cuba, exchange bergdahl last year. part controversial prisoner swap, bergdahl returned united states. march, military charged desertion misbehavior enemy. 'unrealistic expectations people' dahl testified thought bergdahl "very bright well-read." asked bergdahl's background might caused behavior military, dahl said combination growing rural idaho "edge grid ... home-schooled" fact "internalized lot read" resulted "idealistic unrealistic expectations people." though bergdahl duty-bound comply investigation, submitted day half interview. bergdahl exercise right silence start interview, dahl said. new bergdahl letter outlines torture dahl said didn't "believe jail sentence end process." last witness bergdhahl defense team terrence russell, civilian works department defense joint personnel recovery agency. russell debriefed bergdahl. russell said bergdahl experienced "horrific" conditions "experience ranks echelon horrible conditions seen 60 years," referring troops held vietnam. described bergdhahl "an army one, fight enemy alone 4 years 11 months. cannot overestimate difficult is. " hearing began thursday, government prosecutors called witnesses represented bergdahl's chain command. former platoon leader, capt. john paul billings, recounted soldiers awakening early say bergdahl missing. "i didn't really know say. shock, absolute disbelief couldn't find one men. it's hard thing swallow," billings said, adding squad immediately went look him. read statement bergdahl's letter cross-examination, billings said bergdahl appeared completely normal day disappeared, dedicated mission outstanding record performance. defense asked platoon leader whether made aware bergdahl psychological discharge u.s. coast guard, bergdahl "possessed severe mental disease defect?" billings said would recommended bergdahl specialist care known mental issue. hearing, berghdahl sat long table civilian military defense attorneys. spent much proceedings looking took notes pad lap. prisoner swap criticized military fought alongside bergdahl afghanistan blasted prisoner swap deal. obama hailed bergdahl's safe return united states. "sgt. bergdahl missed birthdays holidays simple moments family friends," president said soldier returned. bowe bergdahl fast facts court-martial would put white house precarious situation. steadfastly defended decision recover bergdahl amid backlash republicans served afghanistan. time recovery, u.s. officials said obama's national security team unanimous support prisoner exchange ultimately returned bergdahl united states. concerns physical health prompted circumvent requirement notify congress pending prisoner releases, authorities said time. obama cited "sacred rule" attempting rescue american servicemen -women, matter circumstances surrounding capture. "we still get american soldier back he's held captivity. period. full stop. don't condition that," said time. members bergdahl's unit accused purposely abandoning post captured remote afghanistan. suggested u.s. effort rescue misguided. allegations abandoned post well-known rescue became public, though hadn't yet subject type army investigation followed return. white house expressed regret decision swap idaho native taliban prisoners.
eleni giokos cnnmoney africa correspondent, based network's johannesburg bureau. full bio eleni giokos cnnmoney africa correspondent, based network's johannesburg bureau. born greece raised south africa, giokos decade's experience working across tv, radio, print online media. broadcaster interviewed range heads state business leaders, including south african president jacob zuma, former nigerian president goodluck jonathan, virgin founder richard branson, imf managing director christine lagarde, amongst others. giokos began career cnbc africa 2005. became anchor correspondent 24-hour news channel enca, covering business stories breaking news -- including killing reeva steenkamp oscar pistorius westgate mall attack. reported key global events world economic forum davos united nations general assembly. chaired debates world economic forum, international monetary fund, african finance corporation africa ceo forum. also contributed regularly south africa's mail guardian newspaper, worked motivational speaker public schools, trained aspiring journalism students. giokos honors degree journalism media studies university witwatersrand, international monetary fund fellow -- selected join programme 2014.
flora charner, euan mckirdy steve almasy, cnn updated 1:14 pm et, thu august 3, 2017 chat us facebook messenger. find what's happening world unfolds. caracas, venezuela (cnn)venezuela's attorney general initiated investigation potential voter fraud sunday's election following allegations government may inflated voter numbers significantly. cnn's flora charner reported caracas, euan mckirdy wrote hong kong steve almasy atlanta. cnn's julia jones, daniel silva fernandez nicole chavez contributed report. caracas, venezuela (cnn)venezuela's attorney general initiated investigation potential voter fraud sunday's election following allegations government may inflated voter numbers significantly. cnn's flora charner reported caracas, euan mckirdy wrote hong kong steve almasy atlanta. cnn's julia jones, daniel silva fernandez nicole chavez contributed report. luisa ortega diaz, interview wednesday cnn en espaol, said appointed two prosecutors investigate directors national electoral council "for scandalous act could generate violence country already experienced." venezuelan president nicols maduro called last weekend's vote, led creation controversial new legislative body, national constituent assembly. body takes place opposition-led national assembly move critics fear erode democracy. london-based smartmatic, provided voting technology controversial vote, said wednesday national electoral council voting numbers 8 million people -- 41.53% registered voters -- 1 million votes. opposition boycotted election, calling fraudulent, said national constituent assembly power rewrite venezuelan constitution. "it's serious, believe investigate determine fault," said ortega, vocal critic maduro's government. "probably, voter data doesn't even match half (voter turnout)." called formation new assembly "significant event" said body oversight. "they want. going legislative body super powers," ortega said. "it's important country know reach fraud constitutes crime." turnout figures 'tampered with' press conference wednesday london, smartmatic ceo antonio mugica said turnout figures "tampered with." "based robustness system, know, without doubt, turnout recent election national constituent assembly manipulated," said. maduro disputed assertion wednesday. "the stupid president smartmatic, pressure united states united kingdom, says 7.5 million people voted," said. "i say 10 million." attorney general also said office considering reaching international organizations determines crimes humanity committed. newly elected venezuelan legislative body meet first time friday morning, maduro said speech broadcast nationwide. virtually new body's 545 members supporters leftist leader. opposition groups -- well supporters government -- said would march friday. 350 members new assembly elected open municipal votes. remaining members elected people certain social industry groups students, pensioners workers. maduro also announced named jorge arreaza, former vice president, foreign minister. samuel moncada, foreign minister, become venezuela's representative organization american states. oas discuss 'illegitimate electoral acts' wednesday night, luis almagro, secretary-general oas, called emergency council meeting regarding "the aggravation crisis venezuela." almagro cited "illegitimate electoral acts installation constituent assembly, well electoral fraud 1 million votes," arguing venezuela infringing two articles inter-american democratic charter. meeting take place weekend. opposition-held referendum nonbinding july 16 referendum organized opposition parties, overwhelming majority voters came maduro's plan. referendum asked voters three yes-no questions. 98% chose reject proposed constitutional assembly, request military defend existing constitution support fresh elections maduro's term ends 2019. 7 million venezuelans voted referendum -- 37% country's electorate. attorney general: became critic cnn en espaol interview, ortega spoke first time events led become vocal critic venezuelan government years staunch chavista. told fernando del rincon political, social, institutional crisis country reason enough said also motivated kidnapping daughter grandson well continuous attacks workplace. said that, attending meeting regional attorneys general, daughter grandson abducted experienced "permanent persecution, siege ... attorney general's office, house, house relatives permanent recent months." said consistent political views, others government changed theirs. "my position always same, five, 10 years, two years," ortega said. "i continue act way. believe check others."
alisyn camerota cnn anchor co-host cnn's morning show "new day" chris cuomo. full bio tenure cnn, camerota covered breaking news stories ground internationally domestically, including paris brussels terror attacks, tragic south carolina church shooting, pulse nightclub shooting orlando, fl. additionally, forefront cnn's coverage 2016 elections, conducting news-making interviews democratic republican nominees many primary candidates. outside role new day, camerota anchored primetime specials, including "sexual assault campus," panel discussion epidemic sexual assaults college campuses, "the cosby show: legend fire," one hour conversation comedian's alleged victims. prior joining cnn, camerota served co-host america's news headquarters fox news channel 16 years. that, co-anchored fox & friends weekend contributed fox & friends weekday franchise covered gamut hard news human interest stories. camerota live air iraq war began, space shuttle columbia exploded, countless breaking news events. alisyn married lives new york area three children.

