security breach spilled secrets shaken n.s.a. core washington — jake williams awoke last april orlando, fla., hotel leading training session. checking twitter, cybersecurity expert dismayed discover thrust middle one worst security debacles ever befall american intelligence.mr. williams written company blog shadow brokers, mysterious group somehow obtained many hacking tools united states used spy countries. group replied angry screed twitter. identified — correctly — former member national security agency’s hacking group, tailored access operations, t.a.o., job publicly disclosed. shadow brokers astonished dropping technical details made clear knew highly classified hacking operations conducted.america’s largest secretive intelligence agency deeply infiltrated.“they operational insight even fellow operators t.a.o. have,” said mr. williams, rendition infosec, cybersecurity firm founded. “i felt like i’d kicked gut. whoever wrote either well-placed insider stolen lot operational data.”the jolt mr. williams shadow brokers’ riposte part much broader earthquake shaken n.s.a. core. current former agency officials say shadow brokers disclosures, began august 2016, catastrophic n.s.a., calling question ability protect potent cyberweapons value national security. agency regarded world’s leader breaking adversaries’ computer networks failed protect own.“these leaks incredibly damaging intelligence cyber capabilities,” said leon e. panetta, former defense secretary director central intelligence agency. “the fundamental purpose intelligence able effectively penetrate adversaries order gather vital intelligence. nature, works secrecy maintained codes protected.”with leak intelligence methods like n.s.a. tools, mr. panetta said, “every time happens, essentially start over.”fifteen months wide-ranging investigation agency’s counterintelligence arm, known q group, f.b.i., officials still know whether n.s.a. victim brilliantly executed hack, russia likely perpetrator, insider’s leak, both. three employees arrested since 2015 taking classified files, fear one leakers may still place. broad agreement damage shadow brokers already far exceeds harm american intelligence done edward j. snowden, former n.s.a. contractor fled four laptops classified material 2013.mr. snowden’s cascade disclosures journalists defiant public stance drew far media coverage new breach. mr. snowden released code words, shadow brokers released actual code; shared might described battle plans, loosed weapons themselves. created huge expense american taxpayers, cyberweapons picked hackers north korea russia shot back united states allies.millions people saw computers shut ransomware, demands payments digital currency access restored. tens thousands employees mondelez international, oreo cookie maker, data completely wiped. fedex reported attack european subsidiary halted deliveries cost $300 million. hospitals pennsylvania, britain indonesia turn away patients. attacks disrupted production car plant france, oil company brazil chocolate factory tasmania, among thousands enterprises affected worldwide.american officials explain close allies — business leaders united states — cyberweapons developed fort meade maryland, came used them. experts believe attacks using stolen n.s.a. tools certain.inside agency’s maryland headquarters campuses around country, n.s.a. employees subjected polygraphs suspended jobs hunt turncoats allied shadow brokers. much agency’s cyberarsenal still replaced, curtailing operations. morale plunged, experienced cyberspecialists leaving agency better-paying jobs — including firms defending computer networks intrusions use n.s.a.’s leaked tools.“it’s disaster multiple levels,” mr. williams said. “it’s embarrassing people responsible brought justice.”in response detailed questions, n.s.a. spokesman, michael t. halbig, said agency “cannot comment shadow brokers.” denied episode hurt morale. “n.s.a. continues viewed great place work; receive 140,000 applications year hiring program,” said.compounding pain n.s.a. attackers’ regular online public taunts, written ersatz broken english. posts peculiar mash-up immaturity sophistication, laced profane jokes also savvy cultural political references. suggest author — american — knows united states well.“is nsa chasing shadowses?” shadow brokers asked post oct. 16, mocking agency’s inability understand leaks announcing price cut subscriptions “monthly dump service” stolen n.s.a. tools. typically wide-ranging screed, touching george orwell’s “1984”; end federal government’s fiscal year sept. 30; russia’s creation bogus accounts facebook twitter; phenomenon american intelligence officers going work contractors pay higher salaries.one passage, possibly hinting shadow brokers’ identity, underscored close relationship russian intelligence criminal hackers. “russian security peoples,” said, “is becoming russian hackeres nights, full moons.”russia prime suspect parallel hemorrhage hacking tools secret documents c.i.a.’s center cyber intelligence, posted week week since march wikileaks website names vault7 vault8. breach, too, unsolved. together, flood digital secrets agencies invest huge resources preventing breaches raising profound questions.have hackers leakers made secrecy obsolete? russian intelligence simply outplayed united states, penetrating closely guarded corners government? work force thousands young, tech-savvy spies ever immune leaks?some veteran intelligence officials believe lopsided focus offensive cyberweapons hacking tools has, years, left american cyberdefense dangerously porous.“we train wreck coming,” said mike mcconnell, former n.s.a. director national intelligence director. “we ratcheted defense parts significantly.”at heart n.s.a. crisis tailored access operations, group mr. williams worked, absorbed last year agency’s new directorate operations.t.a.o. — outdated name still used informally — began years ago side project agency’s research engineering building fort meade. cyber skunk works, akin special units built stealth aircraft drones. washington’s need hacking capabilities grew, t.a.o. expanded separate office park laurel, md., additional teams facilities colorado, georgia, hawaii texas.the hacking unit attracts many agency’s young stars, like thrill internet break-ins name national security, according dozen former government officials agreed describe work condition anonymity. t.a.o. analysts start shopping list desired information likely sources — say, chinese official’s home computer russian oil company’s network. much t.a.o.’s work labeled e.c.i., “exceptionally controlled information,” material sensitive initially stored safes. cumulative weight safes threatened integrity n.s.a.’s engineering building years ago, one agency veteran said, rules changed allow locked file cabinets.the experienced t.a.o. operators devise ways break foreign networks; junior operators take extract information. mr. williams, 40, former paramedic served military intelligence army joining n.s.a., worked t.a.o. 2008 2013, described especially long tenure. called work “challenging sometimes exciting.”t.a.o. operators must constantly renew arsenal stay abreast changing software hardware, examining every windows update new iphone vulnerabilities. “the nature business move technology,” former t.a.o. hacker said.long known mainly eavesdropping agency, n.s.a. embraced hacking especially productive way spy foreign targets. intelligence collection often automated, malware implants — computer code designed find material interest — left sitting targeted system months even years, sending files back n.s.a.the implant used many purposes: steal documents, tap email, subtly change data become launching pad attack. t.a.o.’s public success operation iran called olympic games, implants network natanz nuclear plant caused centrifuges enriching uranium self-destruct. t.a.o. also critical attacks islamic state north korea.it cyberarsenal shadow brokers got hold of, began release.like cops studying burglar’s operating style stash stolen goods, n.s.a. analysts tried figure shadow brokers took. none leaked files date later 2013 — relief agency officials assessing damage. include large share t.a.o.’s collection, including three so-called ops disks — t.a.o.’s term tool kits — containing software bypass computer firewalls, penetrate windows break linux systems commonly used android phones.evidence shows shadow brokers obtained entire tool kits intact, suggesting insider might simply pocketed thumb drive walked out.but files obtained shadow brokers bore relation ops disks seem grabbed different times. designed compromise n.s.a. swift, global financial messaging system, allowing agency track bank transfers. manual old system code-named unitedrake, used attack windows. powerpoint presentations files used hacking, making unlikely shadow brokers simply grabbed tools left internet sloppy n.s.a. hackers.some officials doubt shadow brokers got hacking secure american government agencies — hence search insiders. t.a.o. hackers think skilled, persistent attackers might able get n.s.a.’s defenses — because, one put it, “i know we’ve done countries.”the shadow brokers verbally attacked certain cyberexperts, including mr. williams. concluded twitter hints knew hacks n.s.a., canceled business trip singapore. united states named criminally charged hackers intelligence agencies china, iran russia. feared could similarly charged country targeted arrested international warrant.he since resumed traveling abroad. says one n.s.a. contacted singled publicly shadow brokers.“that feels like betrayal,” said. “i targeted shadow brokers work. feel government back.”for decades creation 1952, n.s.a. — agency, old joke — seen leakproof. since mr. snowden flew away hundreds thousands documents 2013, notion shattered.the snowden trauma led investment millions dollars new technology tougher rules counter government calls insider threat. n.s.a. employees say thousands employees pouring gates, ability store library’s worth data device fit key ring, impossible prevent people walking secrets.the agency active investigations least three former n.s.a. employees contractors. two worked t.a.o.: still publicly unidentified software developer secretly arrested taking hacking tools home 2015, russian hackers lift home computer; harold t. martin iii, contractor arrested last year f.b.i. agents found home, garden shed car stuffed sensitive agency documents storage devices taken many years work-at-home habit got control, lawyers say. third reality winner, young n.s.a. linguist arrested june, charged leaking news site intercept single classified report russian breach american election systems vendor.mr. martin’s gargantuan collection stolen files included much shadow brokers have, scrutinized investigators possible source them. officials say believe deliberately supplied material, though examined whether might targeted thieves hackers.but according former n.s.a. employees still touch active workers, investigators shadow brokers thefts clearly worried one leakers may still inside agency. t.a.o. employees asked turn passports, take time jobs submit questioning. small number cyberspecialists worked t.a.o. c.i.a. come particular attention, concern single leaker might responsible shadow brokers c.i.a.’s vault7 breaches.then shadow brokers’ writings, betray seeming immersion american culture. last april, time mr. williams discovering inside knowledge t.a.o. operations, shadow brokers posted appeal president trump: “don’t forget base.” ease seasoned pundit, tossed around details stephen k. bannon, president’s departed adviser; freedom caucus congress; “deep state”; alien sedition acts; white privilege.“theshadowbrokers wanting see succeed,” post said, addressing mr. trump. “theshadowbrokers wanting america great again.”the mole hunt inevitably creating atmosphere suspicion anxiety, former employees say. attraction n.s.a. skilled cyberoperators unique — nowhere else hack without getting legal trouble — boom cybersecurity hiring private companies gives t.a.o. veterans lucrative exit options.young t.a.o. hackers lucky make $80,000 year, leave routinely find jobs paying well $100,000, cybersecurity specialists say. many workers, appeal n.s.a’s mission enough make difference. past year, former t.a.o. employees say increasing number former colleagues called looking private-sector work, including “graybeards” thought would n.s.a. lifers.“snowden killed morale,” another t.a.o. analyst said. “but least knew was. situation agency questioning people 100 percent mission-oriented, telling they’re liars.”because n.s.a. hacking unit grown rapidly past decade, pool potential leakers expanded hundreds. trust eroded anyone access leaked code regarded potential culprit.some agency veterans seen projects worked decade shut implants relied dumped online shadow brokers. number new operations declined malware tools must rebuilt. end sight.“how much longer releases going come?” former t.a.o. employee asked. “the agency doesn’t know stop — even ‘it’ is.”one n.s.a. official almost saw career ended shadow brokers top organization: adm. michael s. rogers, director n.s.a. commander sister military organization, united states cyber command. president barack obama’s director national intelligence, james r. clapper jr., defense secretary, ashton b. carter, recommended removing admiral rogers post create accountability breaches.but mr. obama act advice, part admiral rogers’ agency center investigation russia’s interference 2016 election. mr. trump, saturday disputed intelligence agencies’ findings russia election, extended admiral’s time office. former intelligence officials say flabbergasted able hold job.lurking background shadow brokers investigation american officials’ strong belief russian operation. pattern dribbling stolen documents many months, say, echoes slow release democratic emails purloined russian hackers last year.but specific back story united states-russia cyber rivalry.starting 2014, american cybersecurity researchers tracking russia’s state-sponsored hacking groups years began expose series research reports. american firms, including symantec, crowdstrike fireeye, reported moscow behind certain cyberattacks identified government-sponsored russian hacking groups.in meantime, russia’s prominent cybersecurity firm, kaspersky lab, started work report would turn tables united states. kaspersky hunted spying malware planted n.s.a. hackers, guided part keywords code names files taken mr. snowden published journalists, officials said.kaspersky was, sense, simply n.s.a. american companies done russian intelligence: expose operations. american officials believe russian intelligence piggybacking kaspersky’s efforts find retrieve n.s.a.’s secrets wherever could found. t.a.o. hackers knew kaspersky updated popular antivirus software find block n.s.a. malware, could thwart spying operations around world.so t.a.o. personnel rushed replace implants many countries new malware believe russian company could detect.in february 2015, kaspersky published report equation group — company’s name t.a.o. hackers — updated antivirus software uproot n.s.a. malware wherever replaced. agency temporarily lost access considerable flow intelligence. accounts, however, n.s.a. officials relieved kaspersky report include certain tools feared russian company found.as would turn out, celebration premature.on aug. 13 last year, new twitter account using shadow brokers’ name announced fanfare online auction stolen n.s.a. hacking tools.“we hack equation group,” shadow brokers wrote. “we find many many equation group cyber weapons.”inside n.s.a., declaration like bomb exploding. zip file posted online contained first free sample agency’s hacking tools. immediately evident shadow brokers hoaxsters, agency trouble.the leaks renewed debate whether n.s.a. permitted stockpile vulnerabilities discovers commercial software use spying — rather immediately alert software makers holes plugged. agency claims shared industry 90 percent flaws found, reserving valuable hackers. can’t keep leaking, last year demonstrated, resulting damage businesses ordinary computer users around world colossal. trump administration says soon announce revisions system, making transparent.mr. williams said may years “full fallout” shadow brokers breach understood. even arrest whoever responsible leaks may end them, said — sophisticated perpetrators may built “dead man’s switch” release remaining files automatically upon arrest.“we’re obviously dealing people operational security knowledge,” said. “they whole law enforcement system intelligence system them. haven’t caught.”
‘watershed moment,’ youtube blocks extremist cleric’s message washington — eight years, jihadist propaganda anwar al-awlaki helped shape generation american terrorists, including fort hood gunman, boston marathon bombers perpetrators massacres san bernardino, calif., orlando, fla.and youtube, world’s popular video site, allowed hundreds hours mr. awlaki’s talks within easy reach anyone phone computer.now, growing pressure governments counterterrorism advocates, youtube drastically reduced video archive mr. awlaki, american cleric remains leading english-language jihadist recruiter internet six years killed united states drone strike. using video fingerprinting technology, youtube flags videos automatically human reviewers block anyone sees them, company officials say.a search “anwar al-awlaki” youtube fall found 70,000 videos, including life’s work, early years mainstream american imam later years al qaeda yemen.today search turns 18,600 videos, vast majority news reports life death, debates legality killing, refutations work scholars material him. small number clips mr. awlaki speaking disappeared new york times sent inquiry change policy last week.“it’s watershed moment question whether we’re going allow unchecked proliferation cyberjihad,” said mark d. wallace, chief executive counter extremism project, research organization long called mr. awlaki’s recordings removed web. “you don’t want make easy people listen guy wants harm us.”mr. wallace, former diplomat, said fact much mr. awlaki’s youtube presence mainstream lectures islamic history justify keeping site. “it’s insult islam say teaching religion can’t stand loss preacher also leading propagandist jihad english,” said.the policy shift youtube comes face growing chorus criticism internet companies, including facebook, twitter google, owns youtube. long argued merely neutral platforms responsibility users posted.but quick remove copyrighted material, child pornography beheading videos, example, posed obvious threat business. slowly stepped removal extremist content, spurred 2014 islamic state’s use twitter recruit fighters.most recently, facebook, twitter youtube admitted russian government used platforms last year pose american voters spread divisive propaganda. fire congress, companies pledged police sites carefully future.the prolific presence youtube mr. awlaki, later years called attacks america americans, subject complaints since november 2009, wrote website army maj. nidal malik hasan “hero” fatally shooting 13 people fort hood, tex.born new mexico yemeni parents, mr. awlaki spent half life united states spoke excellent english. popular young imam denver, san diego washington, d.c., suburb, recorded lecture series eventually best sellers among western muslims — notably 53-cd boxed set life prophet muhammad.after leaving london 2002, however, gradually embraced view united states war muslims, religious duty fight back. evidence emerged recruited coached young nigerian tried blow airliner detroit christmas day 2009, president barack obama ordered legal review placed terrorist kill list.mr. awlaki three members al qaeda killed drone strike yemen september 2011. death mr. obama’s orders made martyr eyes many admirers, posted work youtube.much early, mainstream material, clearly violate youtube’s “community guidelines.” especially mr. awlaki’s death, fans often labeled even early material work martyr killed america. number videos youtube presenting celebrating work doubled 2014 2017, even investigators found decisive influence major terrorist attacks united states europe.the counter extremism project, series reports, documented posthumous power complained youtube’s recommendation tools, often suggested mr. awlaki’s sinister recordings people watched material islam sampled history talks.youtube slow remove even explicit calls violence. though company first promised publicly take material 2010, mr. awlaki’s “call jihad,” 12-minute talk calling western muslims join jihad middle east carry attacks home, remained easily available youtube last year.as pressure mounted, however, company recently decided treat mr. awlaki way treats terrorist organizations, near-total ban, according company officials. officials agreed discuss policy change declined named, citing security concerns.youtube said initial decision purge particular video made human reviewers. decision made, “hash function,” kind digital fingerprint, created automatically rid site additional copies video.the officials noted youtube, according published rules, “strictly prohibits content intended recruit terrorist organizations, incite violence, celebrate terrorist attacks otherwise promote acts terrorism.” decided special case mr. awlaki, recordings removed.“i’ve seen major drop-off work youtube,” said alexander meleagrou-hitchens, research director george washington university’s program extremism author forthcoming book mr. awlaki. “they deserve credit that.”some civil libertarians cautioned dangers censorship, even company rather government.“the motivations lead individual commit act violence complex,” said faiza patel brennan center justice new york university’s law school. “to pin one guy’s videos seems simplistic.”mr. meleagrou-hitchens noted mr. awlaki’s work remains easy find elsewhere web seeking it. weekend search mr. awlaki’s “call jihad,” instance, instantly brought video french site, dailymotion; internet archive; pakistani’s facebook page.nonetheless, mr. meleagrou-hitchens said, popularity youtube automated recommendations made especially pernicious platform cleric.“the fact really want awlaki videos, you’ll find them,” said. “but he’s less available youtube, fewer people coming across aren’t actually seeking out.”
trump team begins drafting middle east peace plan washington — president trump advisers begun developing concrete blueprint end decades-old conflict israel palestinians, plan intended go beyond previous frameworks offered american government pursuit president calls “the ultimate deal.”after 10 months educating complexities world’s intractable dispute, white house officials said, mr. trump’s team relative newcomers middle east peacemaking moved new phase venture hopes transforming learned tangible steps end stalemate frustrated even presidents experience region.the prospects peace caught web issues consuming region, demonstrated recent days saudi arabia’s growing confrontation iranian-backed hezbollah lebanon. israel likewise worried hezbollah well efforts iran establish land corridor across southern syria. war hezbollah broke out, could scuttle initiative palestinians.nonetheless, mr. trump’s team collected “non-papers” exploring various issues related israeli-palestinian conflict, officials said expected address perennial dividing points status jerusalem settlements occupied west bank. although mr. trump committed palestinian state, analysts said anticipated plan built around so-called two-state solution core peacemaking efforts years.“we spent lot time listening engaging israelis, palestinians key regional leaders past months help reach enduring peace deal,” said jason d. greenblatt, president’s chief negotiator. “we going put artificial timeline development presentation specific ideas also never impose deal. goal facilitate, dictate, lasting peace agreement improve lives israelis palestinians security across region.”mr. trump, considers dealmaker, decided adopt challenge took office january, intrigued idea succeeding presidents failed, assigned effort jared kushner, son-in-law senior adviser. neither background issue effort greeted scorn, fact president entrusted close relative taken sign seriousness region.mr. trump’s team sees convergence factors make moment ripe, including increased willingness arab states finally solve issue refocus attention iran, consider bigger threat. mind, egypt brokering reconciliation mahmoud abbas, presides west bank, hamas, controls gaza, deal would cement palestinian authority representative palestinian people. saudi arabia summoned mr. abbas riyadh reinforce importance deal.“the stars begin align way creates moment,” said nimrod novik, fellow israel policy forum served foreign policy adviser former prime minister shimon peres, negotiated oslo accords 1990s. “but obviously two key questions prime minister netanyahu decide go it” “will president trump, he’s presented plan team, decide it’s worth political capital required.”still, neither prime minister benjamin netanyahu israel president abbas palestinian authority strong position negotiate. mr. netanyahu faces corruption investigations pressure right narrow coalition make concessions, mr. abbas aging endures strong opposition among constituents.skepticism abounds, especially among spent years struggling overcome challenges set tools. president barack obama advisers debated months putting forth parameters deal, ultimately outlining general set principles end last year speech secretary state john kerry time ran administration.“there’s nothing new sun comes middle east peace,” said philip gordon, white house middle east coordinator mr. obama. “when get details, that’s come strong objections two sides. don’t want dead arrival, may wind vague principles, we’ve seen, even vague principles beyond parties willing embrace.”tamara cofman wittes, state department official mr. obama, said israeli palestinian leaders “are heavily constrained” governing coalitions suspicious risk-averse publics. “it’s hard even willing political leaders make major concessions circumstances,” said.the core four-member team drafting plan includes mr. kushner, mr. greenblatt, dina h. powell, deputy national security adviser, david m. friedman, ambassador israel. consulting donald blome, consul general jerusalem, others state department national security council. officials said effort may take early next year.mr. trump team make bones pro-israel. president boasted israel’s “biggest friend” mr. kushner, mr. greenblatt mr. friedman orthodox jews ties israel. ms. powell egyptian-born coptic christian mr. kushner developed strong ties saudis arabs recently returned visit riyadh. mr. trump met mr. netanyahu mr. abbas three times each.the team drawn praise across spectrum. “we believe historic opportunity, spare effort support president trump’s investment better future,” husam zomlot, palestinian authority’s envoy washington, said interview. trip london month, mr. netanyahu said, “they trying think box.”barak ravid, israeli journalist broken stories american effort, wrote left-leaning haaretz newspaper last spring mr. trump “succeeded bringing peace, recent years become dirty word, back center israeli public political discourse.”but privately, officials sides express concern mr. trump team still naïve middle east ineffective accomplishing objectives.dennis ross, veteran middle east peace negotiator, said mr. trump’s team “done good job presenting listened” “taken seriously” region.the decision present concrete plan makes sense ground prepared advance. “if simply resume negotiations nothing accompanies it, nobody take seriously,” mr. ross said. “people say we’ve seen movie before. show people — no, something different time.”some analysts said believed mr. trump’s plan may come confidence-building provisions side already agreed to. israel, could include limiting settlement construction current blocs without taking new land, recommitting two-state solution redesignating small part west bank give palestinians control.for palestinians, could include resuming full security cooperation israel, holding seeking international recognition ending payments families palestinians imprisoned terrorist attacks. arab states, particularly saudi arabia, egypt, united arab emirates jordan, could add commitments, like overflights israeli passenger planes, visas business people telecommunications links.a white house official dismissed mere speculation. challenges getting even stage formidable, much less tackling harder questions.mr. zomlot, palestinian envoy, said plan must establish sovereign palestinian state along borders 1967 arab-israeli war east jerusalem capital. “this maximum. minimum,” said. “what everybody needs understand historic compromise already made.”israel’s allies washington pressing side. house foreign affairs committee wednesday consider bill cut aid palestinian authority unless ends payments families palestinian attackers.“if palestinians going trustworthy partners kind peace discussion, show they’re inciting terrorism,” said representative doug lamborn, republican colorado sponsoring legislation. “and pay people — and, fact, pay more, jews kill — that’s pure incitement terrorism.”palestinian leaders say payments meant help destitute families, promote terrorism, accuse israel subsidizing violence encouraging settlers west bank. one compromise floated recently would palestinian authority help families general welfare program prioritize relatives prisoners.still, analysts think mr. netanyahu mr. abbas simply playing along goal ensuring blamed process collapses.“the biggest impediment peace process two leaders,” said grant rumley, scholar foundation defense democracies. “ultimately, netanyahu abbas long, long history they’ve played game really well. don’t trust don’t think ever get point trust other.”
disciplined week asia, trump unloads critics hanoi, vietnam — last week road, president trump measured, disciplined studiously scripted picked way geopolitical minefields asia.then came weekend.in stream tweets sunday, president said wanted investigate ties russia “haters fools,” ridiculed “crooked” hillary clinton’s ill-fated effort reset relations russia fired back north korea’s leader, kim jong-un, calling old, saying could call mr. kim “short fat” — restrained himself.that followed freewheeling session reporters air force one saturday, mr. trump dismissed russia investigation democratic “hit job” derided “political hacks” three former chiefs nation’s intelligence agencies, three concluded russia meddled 2016 presidential election.it hard say prompted sudden change president’s demeanor, though first lady, melania trump, often plays moderating influence husband, dropped trip beijing, visiting great wall china stroking paw panda bear beijing zoo.mr. trump, 71, could also simply tired, though aides insist not, even people around are.pressed sunday whether believed president vladimir v. putin’s denials russia intervened, mr. trump seemed walk back earlier comments somewhat. said dispute assessment intelligence agencies moscow interfered.“as whether believe not, i’m agencies, especially currently constituted, leadership,” mr. trump said news conference vietnam’s president, tran dai quang. “i believe agencies. i’ve worked strongly.”still, mr. trump’s endorsement grudging — noted assessment reflected four agencies, 17 — repeated assertion washington needed move russia investigation cooperate russians issues north korea syria.“what believe is, get work,” said. “it’s time get back healing world shattered broken.”in short run, mr. trump’s comments broke narrative white house carefully constructed 12-day trip — statesman marshaling worldwide coalition confront nuclear north korea, populist leader working right trade imbalances.the president’s tweets comments also complicated life white house officials, encouraged friendly meetings leaders japan, china south korea characterized one effective foreign-policy speeches presidency, need confront nuclear north korea.speaking reporters hanoi sunday, white house chief staff, john f. kelly, insisted pay attention mr. trump’s tweets allow staff distracted them.“they are,” mr. kelly said. “but like, know preparation trip, staff work, got ready go place brief whatever next event that. tweets don’t run life; good staff work runs it.”until sunday, mr. trump careful make things personal mr. kim. speech seoul, cataloged brutality kim government, north korea described “lunatic old man” urged americans force office face “abyss doom.”that prompted indignant response mr. trump, seemed offended gibe age mental condition. shortly leaving hotel meet vietnamese president, tweeted, “why would kim jong-un insult calling ‘old’ would never call ‘short fat?’ oh well, try hard friend.”once presidential palace, however, mr. trump seemed gotten it. asked whether could see becoming friends mr. kim, said: “strange things happen life. might strange thing happen, it’s certainly possibility.”“if happen,” continued, “it would good thing — tell — north korea. would also good lots places, would good world.”mr. trump’s comments keeping hot-and-cold approach mr. kim. times, floated idea meeting mr. kim praised north korean leader consolidating power country young age. also ridiculed “little rocket man” ballistic missile tests.with mr. putin, mr. trump consistent.“i believe president putin really feels — feels strongly — meddle election,” mr. trump said sunday, asked clarify comments mr. putin’s sincerity question night before. “what believes believes.”standing next vietnamese president, mr. trump repeat contempt shown day three officials served president barack obama: john o. brennan, former director c.i.a.; james b. comey, former director f.b.i.; james r. clapper, former director national intelligence.but less insistent russia investigation distraction pressing global matters — syria, ukraine north korea — time punishing russia over. president discussed north korea brief conversation mr. putin, mr. kelly said.“people don’t realize russia very, heavily sanctioned,” mr. trump said. “and feel russia friendly posture, opposed always fighting them, asset world asset country, liability.”when news conference over, mr. trump reverted script. sitting bust ho chi minh general secretary vietnamese communist party, nguyen phu trong, stressed importance fair trade relationships.“we opening opening it’s going even out,” mr. trump told communist leader.for wondering president’s trip pack surprises, boarded air force one later landed manila, officially meet monday philippine president, rodrigo duterte, one world leaders outdoes unpredictability.mr. trump meet mr. duterte bilateral talks monday, day leaders 10-nation association southeast asian nations, asean, begin summit expected tackle regional issues ranging antiterrorism cooperation trade. bloc also expected begin talks proposed code conduct region, amid disputes members china islands south china sea.in anticipation mr. trump’s arrival, leftist activists, rights groups students protested sunday streets philippines.“his first asian visit turning preposterous, cringe-worthy disaster waiting happen southeast asia people,” said farmers’ group called union agricultural workers. called mr. duterte united states’ “main puppet asia.”both mr. trump mr. duterte previously met danang, vietnam, shook hands dinner hosted philippine leader sunday night.the philippine leader made quite clear would take kindly united states questioned war drugs, left thousands dead since last year.nevertheless, philippine foreign secretary, alan peter cayetano, said two men “had good first meeting” danang. “it’s official meeting, saw other,” said. “we believe strengthen relationship.”mr. cayetano added: “if two tough guys room, always fear try appear tougher other. understand language, goals. case, want better life people.”“so sometimes, tough guys become close friends real life, put way,” mr. cayetano said.
duterte warms trump, keeps focus china bangkok — president philippines, rodrigo duterte, seldom holds back.his antidrug crusade led extrajudicial killings thousands people. fond boasting personally killed criminals even strangers. unleashes profane diatribes countries world figures dislikes, united states often receiving end.but quietly, seems warmed united states president trump, also notably provocative style.as country hosts summit meeting association southeast asian nations, asean, sunday, charming side mr. duterte’s personality likely display, meetings mr. trump foreign policy goal closer relations china.one big reason shift rhetoric comes united states clear: president trump marked improvement mr. duterte’s eyes barack obama, urged philippines leader follow rule law tackling illegal drug trade.on saturday, mr. trump mr. duterte met first time sidelines economic summit meeting vietnam. two shook hands spoke warmly longer discussion next two days, philippines officials said.“these two talking friends,” said ramon casiple, executive director institute political electoral reform, nonprofit promoting democracy philippines. “i don’t see reasons meet face-to-face big problems.”but longer-term game mr. duterte determination court china. since election, backed contentious territorial disputes beijing — last week, halted construction project south china sea brought chinese complaints — despite international ruling early presidency backed philippines.harry roque, spokesman mr. duterte, described policy deliberate turn toward closer relationships countries asia, china particular.mr. duterte hopes strategy bring billions dollars investment china, though money slow coming, said richard javad heydarian, assistant professor political science de la salle university manila.still, united states former colony treaty allies long history cooperation. clear mr. duterte’s mr. trump’s styles seem mesh clash.mr. trump set stage improved relations called mr. duterte april congratulated “unbelievable job drug problem.” united states also provided valuable military assistance — including drones intelligence — proved instrumental defeating islamic extremists five-month siege marawi city, ended last month.on sunday, mr. trump offered help mediate disputes south china sea, also pit china vietnam countries region. “i’m good mediator arbitrator,” said start meeting hanoi vietnam’s president, tran dai quang.last year, mr. duterte called “separation” united states, threatened expel american troops accused central intelligence agency plotting kill him. asked would respond american president criticize antidrug campaign, mr. duterte replied vulgar epithet describe mr. obama, president time.mr. roque, spokesman, said mr. duterte changed tune seeing value united states help marawi.“he hasn’t criticizing united states lately,” mr. roque said interview. “he looks forward closer ties united states.”mr. trump landed philippines sunday protests leftist activists, rights groups students, marched streets. two presidents scheduled hold bilateral talks manila, american leader appeared traditional filipino dress-shirt called barong dinner sunday night, shook hands mr. duterte.mr. trump tied philippines years business dealings, trip, brand arrived well ahead him. trump tower century city, $150 million, 57-story residential building, construction since 2012 metropolitan manila. one several international business deals pose potential conflicts interest mr. trump.the tower built jose e.b. antonio, manila developer. days mr. trump elected, mr. duterte named mr. antonio envoy united states trade, investment economic affairs.“i’ve always loved philippines. think it’s special place, manila one asia’s spectacular cities,” mr. trump quoted saying trump tower website last year. comment since removed.but words could please mr. duterte mr. trump’s support philippines’ antidrug campaign.mr. duterte election promise kill drug users said fish manila bay would grow fat feeding corpses. early months antidrug campaign, police said thousands drug users killed. extrajudicial killing continued, refused release death toll.mr. duterte election last year 39 percent vote, popularity soared killings began. support rating declined recent months, still stood 67 percent september, according survey nonprofit social weather stations.while past american presidents used meetings foreign leaders promote human rights, activists little expectation mr. trump raise extrajudicial killings mr. duterte.“i strongly suspect see alpha-male bromance two,” said phelim kine, human rights watch deputy director asia. “a lot issues underpin u.s.-philippine relations go unaddressed, one rule law.”mr. duterte bristled criticism drug war. speaking filipino workers danang, vietnam, thursday, lashed agnes callamard, united nations special rapporteur extrajudicial, summary arbitrary executions.“this rapporteur, slap front you. why? insulting me,” said speech sprinkled expletives.he also boasted killing man, often past. typically, little evidence support claims.“at age 16, already killed,” said. “a human. stabbed stared me.”mr. duterte also offered host international summit human rights compared satan. “i new toughie hell,” said.but coming days, international audience, mr. duterte likely talk take bigger role region’s important issues. chairman asean, mr. duterte wants regional power broker help negotiate north korea, said mr. heydarian, political scientist.within days april phone call mr. trump, mr. duterte revealed phoned president xi jinping china mr. trump’s request discuss contain north korean nuclear threat.“he trying punch weight, everyone welcome that,” mr. heydarian said. “asean one last bridges north korea international community.”
trump rapidly reshaping judiciary. here’s how. washington — weeks donald j. trump took office, lawyers joining administration gathered law firm near capitol, donald f. mcgahn ii, soon-to-be white house counsel, filled white board secret battle plan fill federal appeals courts young deeply conservative judges.mr. mcgahn, instructed mr. trump maximize opportunity reshape judiciary, mapped potential nominees strategy, according two people familiar effort: start filling vacancies appeals courts multiple openings democratic senators re-election next year states mr. trump — like indiana, michigan pennsylvania — could pressured block nominees. speed confirmation, avoid clogging senate many nominees district courts, legal philosophy less crucial.nearly year later, plan coming fruition. mr. trump already appointed eight appellate judges, early presidency since richard m. nixon, thursday, senate judiciary committee voted along party lines send ninth appellate nominee — mr. trump’s deputy white house counsel, gregory katsas — floor.republicans systematically filling appellate seats held open president barack obama’s final two years office particularly conservative group judges life tenure. democrats — late 2013 abolished ability 41 lawmakers block nominees filibuster, quickly lost control senate — scant power stop them.most strong academic credentials clerked well-known conservative judges, like justice antonin scalia. confirmation votes five eight new judges fell short former 60-vote threshold clear filibusters, including john k. bush, chapter president federalist society, conservative legal network, wrote politically charged blog posts, comparing abortion slavery; stephanos bibas, university pennsylvania law professor proposed using electric shocks punish people convicted certain crimes, although later disavowed idea. mr. trump’s 18 appellate nominees far, 14 men 16 white.while two parties engaged tit-for-tat escalation hardball politics judicial nominations since reagan years, trump administration completing fundamental transformation enterprise. consequences may go beyond chance leave outsize stamp judiciary. democrats regain power, follow playbook systematically appoint outspoken liberal judges, appeals courts end ideologically split congress today.“it’s depressing idea, don’t get appointments unless unified government, appointments ultimately get polarized rest country,” said lee epstein, law professor political scientist washington university st. louis. “what mean legitimacy courts united states? it’s pretty world.”for now, conservatives reveling success. campaign, mr. trump shored support skeptical right-wing voters promising select supreme court justices list mr. mcgahn put together help federalist society conservative heritage foundation. exit polls showed court-focused voters helped deliver president’s narrow victory. now, rewarding them.“we set records terms number judges,” mr. trump said white house recently, adding many nominees pipeline. standing beside senate majority leader, mitch mcconnell kentucky, continued, “there never anything like we’ve able together judges.”appellate judges draw less attention supreme court justices like neil m. gorsuch, mr. trump installed seat justice scalia’s death left vacant republicans, led mr. mcconnell, refused let mr. obama fill. 12 regional appeals courts wield profound influence americans’ lives, getting final word 60,000 cases year among roughly 80 supreme court hears.nan aron, liberal alliance justice, said group considered many mr. trump’s nominees “extremists” — hostile rights women, minority groups workers, unduly favorable wealthy. conservatives, rallied around mr. trump’s nominees rare bright spot unity fractious republican party, see legal rock stars interpret constitution according text original meaning.and see tremendous opportunity fact mr. trump first republican president whose nominees confirmed simple-majority votes, especially since likely fill unusually large number vacancies. mr. trump started 21 open appellate seats republicans gained control senate 2015, essentially shut confirmation process. six additional appellate judgeships opened since inauguration, nearly half 150 active appeals court judges eligible take senior status — semiretirement permits successor’s appointment — soon reach age, according russell wheeler, brookings institution scholar.as result, mr. trump poised bring conservative legal movement, took shape 1980s reaction decades liberal rulings issues like rights criminal suspects women want abortions, new peak influence american law society.“what makes unique opportunity modern history sheer number vacancies, number potential vacancies aging bench, existence president really cares issue gut,” said leonard a. leo, informal adviser mr. trump courts executive vice president federalist society.liberals accused mr. trump outsourcing nominations process federalist society. two administration officials argued claim misunderstands conservative legal movement matured generation republican lawyers shaped reading originalist dissents justice scalia bitter 1987 fight judge robert h. bork’s failed supreme court nomination come age. mr. mcgahn nearly lawyers working white house longtime society participants, relationships built network like-minded conservatives saturate discussions potential nominees inside, said.mr. trump also help senate judiciary committee chairman, charles e. grassley, republican iowa, lowering impediments keeping confirmation assembly line moving.for example, confirmation hearings usually featured one appellate hopeful time (along several district judge nominees). mr. grassley scheduled three hearings year two appellate nominees — many took place eight years obama administration, according congressional aides.the independent guardrail role american bar association, vetted potential judges since eisenhower administration — conducting confidential interviews people worked rating experience, integrity temperament — also weakening. picks presidents parties sometimes run trouble, republicans accused group bias conservatives.traditionally, group’s volunteers vet potential judges white house decides whether send names senate, mr. trump — like president george w. bush — exiled role, leaving scrambling evaluate nominees afterward. already year, mr. grassley held hearings four district judge nominees group finished work — happened seven eight bush years.the bar group later deemed two unqualified trial judges, saying lacked sufficient trial experience. thursday, judiciary committee nevertheless advanced senate floor. one, holly teeter, 38-year-old federal prosecutor fell shy bar group’s minimum standard 12 years experience, gained bipartisan approval. other, brett talley, 36-year-old virtually trial experience wrote politically charged blog posts topics like gun rights, party-line vote.republicans may go ousting group semiofficial gatekeeping role rated l. steven grasz, mr. trump’s nominee appeals court st. louis, “not qualified” judge, portraying “gratuitously rude” unlikely “to separate role advocate judge” matters like abortion. white house weighing telling future nominees sign confidentiality waivers give a.b.a. evaluators access disciplinary action records interview bar group, official said.conservatives also pressuring mr. grassley reduce one remaining constraints letting president allied senate majority appoint whomever wants life-tenured judgeship: judiciary committee’s “blue slip” practice, named color paper senators use sign nominees judgeships states.while handled differently different eras, throughout obama years, mr. grassley democratic predecessor, senator patrick j. leahy vermont, refused let confirmation process proceed nominees without two positive blue slips. approach forces presidents consult senators and, opposite parties, incentivizes compromise selection relative moderates.senator al franken, democrat minnesota, announced return blue slip david r. stras, appeals court nominee minnesota supreme court justice mr. trump’s short list united states supreme court, saying meaningfully consulted objected him. (an administration official said white house primarily negotiated minnesota’s senior senator, amy klobuchar, democrat turn blue slip.) conservatives want mr. grassley hold hearing anyway.democratic senators oregon wisconsin also turned blue slips pending appellate nominees, question much control senators retain judicial appointments states limited partisan politics.senator john kennedy, republican louisiana, returned blue slip kyle duncan, appeals court nominee represented conservative clients several culture-war cases, including whether corporations may refuse provide contraception coverage employees based owners’ religious beliefs, whether transgender students may barred using school bathrooms gender identities.the judicial crisis network, opaquely funded group runs ads pressuring democratic senators block trump nominees, begun airing ads louisiana supporting mr. duncan. mr. franken warned blue-slip constraint eroded, republican senators would lose, — democrats regained power.but many conservatives want take full advantage window opportunity. mr. leo, federalist society, said mr. trump instructed transition team prioritize appointing conservative judges would “strong” could resist “tremendous political social pressure.”mr. trump “understood american people cared judges, purposes cared deeply recognized could president could help restore judiciary proper role,” said.
trump nominee federal judgeship never tried case 36-year-old lawyer never tried case unanimously deemed “not qualified” american bar association approved lifetime federal district judgeship senate judiciary committee.the lawyer, brett talley, fourth judicial nominee president trump receive “not qualified” rating bar association second receive rating unanimously. since 1989, association unanimously rated two judicial nominees qualified.the senate committee’s vote thursday approve mr. talley, graduated harvard law school 2007 deputy assistant attorney general justice department, fell along party lines; republican members outnumber democrats committee 11 nine. mr. talley face full vote senate. confirmed, would serve trial judge home state alabama.mr. talley’s nomination one latest examples mr. trump’s efforts reshape nation’s courts, packing young, deeply conservative judges.mr. talley’s lack experience drew searing questions democratic members committee. senator richard j. durbin illinois, minority whip, asked mr. talley written questionnaire, “do think advisable put people literally trial experience federal district court bench?”mr. talley demurred. “it would inappropriate nominee comment advisability nomination,” wrote.senator dianne feinstein california, ranking member committee, asked mr. talley ever argued motion federal district court, given never tried case. not.ms. feinstein also pointed mr. talley’s prolific social media presence nomination. referred hillary clinton “hillary rotten clinton” public twitter account, private.in 2013, wrote blog armed revolution important defense tyrannical government. ms. feinstein asked written questions mr. talley believed would become appropriate american citizens participate armed uprising government.he replied believe situation american history — “possible exception” slavery — called armed rebellion.at committee vote thursday, ms. feinstein took greatest issue mr. talley’s professed views gun control. 2013, month gunman killed 20 children elementary school newtown, conn., mr. talley blog pledged total support national rifle association, “financially, politically intellectually.”ms. feinstein said asked mr. talley whether, confirmed, would commit recusing cases involving weapons. refused.“i find unacceptable,” said.senator charles e. grassley, republican iowa chairman committee, defended mr. talley’s qualifications. “mr. talley wide breadth various legal experience helped expose different aspects federal law issues would come him,” said statement.mr. grassley also cast doubt importance bar association’s rating. “senators decide a.b.a.’s metric makes nominee qualified proper cases,” said.senator lindsey graham, republican south carolina, 2012 praised bar association’s practice evaluating judicial nominees important way distinguish people merely political connections people belonged bench.mr. grassley also noted judicial nominees rated “not qualified” approved senate judiciary committee, times unanimously.other judicial nominees faced scrutiny lack trial experience. 2010, jeff sessions, senator alabama, asked nancy freudenthal, nominated wyoming district court president barack obama, never tried case jury. ms. freudenthal eventually approved senate, 96 1.additionally, comparative rarity “not qualified” ratings judicial nominees previous administrations may due, least part, difference procedure. every president since dwight d. eisenhower, exception george w. bush, screened potential nominees american bar association publicly announcing — tradition trump administration decided shun.but change alone account number unqualified nominees mr. trump, said kristine lucius, executive vice president policy leadership conference civil human rights, coalition civil rights labor groups.“it unprecedented many, quickly, short time,” said. mr. talley, added, “when think much power district court nominee life death decisions every day, it’s really irresponsible put someone little experience.”the senate committee thursday also approved four nominees federal judgeships, including holly lou teeter, also received “not qualified” rating.
appeal offers hope newtown families suit gun companies newtown, conn. — years since 6-year-old son benjamin fatally shot sandy hook elementary school, david wheeler testified state legislatures, lobbied members congress sat beside wife, francine, delivered speech one president obama’s weekly addresses, pleading changes nation’s gun laws.this week, families victims plan hartford, listening lawyers lay state supreme court case companies manufactured sold military-style assault rifle used gunman bear responsibility attack 26 people, including 20 children, killed.they deploying novel strategy families lawyers say could pierce sweeping shield created federal law protects gun companies litigation thwarted countless lawsuits weapons used commit crimes.supporters believe court clears way jury trial, gun companies’ internal communications — companies fought fiercely keep private — would surface discovery, potentially revealing damaging glimpse industry operates. could also chart legal road map survivors relatives victims mass shootings pursue accountability.“it doesn’t make sense products free liability,” mr. wheeler said recent interview. “it’s level playing field. it’s american capitalistic business practice know it. it’s right.”the high stakes case represents drawn widespread interest intense response sides gun debate. court inundated amicus briefs — gun control advocates emergency room doctors treated patients wounded assault rifle fire well many gun-rights groups. brief, national rifle association argued allowing case move forward threatened “eviscerate” gun companies’ legal protections.the supreme court hearing, years back-and-forth courts, comes fifth anniversary newtown massacre approaches next month, falls shadow recurring episodes deadly mass violence reinvigorated national debate sale weapons like ar-15 style bushmaster rifle used newtown. week ago, 26 people fatally shot church sutherland springs, tex., month earlier, gunman sprayed gunfire crowd attending outdoor music festival las vegas, killing 59 people.some argue recent massacres, serving reminder toll weapons like one used newtown have, could lend credence lawsuit’s claims. “it’s like world thrown exhibit plaintiffs’ argument,” said heidi li feldman, georgetown university law professor tort law expert followed case.but opposing newtown families argue lawsuit specifically kind legal challenge federal protections designed block litigation simply effort use courts forum regulate gun laws.the lawsuit, brought families nine people killed one teacher shot survived, faces significant legal hurdles. elevated connecticut supreme court lower court judge dismissed lawsuit last year found claims raised fell “squarely within broad immunity” provided federal law.mass shootings across country followed flurry legal action, lawsuits brought gun companies failed running headfirst high bar established federal law.in 2005, congress passed protection lawful commerce arms act, sharply restricted lawsuits gun sellers makers granting industrywide immunity blame one products used crime. lawmakers behind measure cited need foil described predatory politically driven litigation. law allow exceptions sale marketing practices violate state federal laws instances so-called negligent entrustment, gun carelessly given sold person posing high risk misusing it.legal experts said negligent entrustment cited success lawsuits gun dealers, newtown families first time broadening scope include weapon’s manufacturer, case, remington, which, along wholesaler local retailer, named suit. companies’ lawyers declined comment.on dec. 14, 2012, adam lanza, troubled 20-year-old, stormed sandy hook elementary school armed ar-15 style bushmaster rifle, firing 154 rounds less five minutes. weapon legally purchased mother, nancy lanza, also killed.the lawsuit argues ar-15 designed united states military battlefield weapon maximize fatalities, gun companies never entrusted rifle untrained civilian public. suit also claims companies deliberately promoted weapon product placement video games macho militaristic marketing slogans appealed population mentally unstable young men — population used gun kill innocent people theaters, malls, schools churches.the families’ lawyers argue drumbeat violence solidified position. “that’s happens market high-risk population,” said joshua d. koskoff, one lawyers representing families.the case already advanced beyond many initially expected. lawsuit originally filed state court 2014, moved federal court, judge ordered case returned state level. families saw glimmer hope, even surprised, state superior court judge, barbara n. bellis, allowed case move closer trial dismissing it.lawyers families argue that, strictly legal sense, outcome case would set little precedent outside connecticut. successful appeal could symbolic influence, pointing weakness law could represent serious threat gun companies, result prompted flood legal fillings. “all key players getting there,” professor feldman said.the state attorney general, gun violence prevention groups statewide association school superintendents among writing support families’ case, well group trauma surgeons emergency room doctors treated patients shootings newtown; san bernardino, calif.; aurora, colo.in one briefs backing gun companies, national shooting sports foundation, happens headquartered newtown, acknowledged case centered “a tragedy unimaginable proportions,” also argued lawsuit sought achieve “regulation litigation.” national rifle association said “plaintiffs cannot shoehorn claims” federal law’s narrow definition negligent entrustment.yet another group, gun owners america, offered much forceful response. group, deploying mix “star wars” “star trek” references, challenged way lawsuit depicts ar-15, saying, “the ar-15 rifle galactic empire death star equipped romulan cloaking device.”“plaintiffs’ brief illustrates views may never even laid eyes weapons vilify,” group wrote, “much less squeezed rounds range, like millions peaceful, law-abiding americans regularly do.”in case drawn three years, families involved acutely aware consequences may last legal avenue. katie mesner-hage, lawyer families, said taken “long view,” realizing “raising important, complicated issues — important, complicated issues take time there’s longer trajectory get end.”mr. wheeler said frustrated lobbying efforts, testifying personal experience pushing reforms. wife never hesitated join lawsuit. “it wasn’t difficult decision all,” said. “the landscape described suit grievous wrong.”mr. koskoff added that, many ways, clients “battle-tested” lawyers.“they face hostility derision threats sometimes, simply want make something sensible senselessness loss feel,” mr. koskoff said. “and that’s cruel thing.”
welcoming worshipers open arms concealed ones, church massacre sutherland springs, tex., church massacre charleston, s.c. enough make rev. john darsey think young georgia church needed security plan — one involved defenders firearms.so church, redeemer church madison, hired three uniformed sheriff’s deputies sunday service, one directing traffic, one parking lot, one right door.this visible deterrent — first line defense.the second, subtle layer in-house security team church members military law enforcement backgrounds, carrying concealed weapons. inside spare, spacious modern sanctuary — 500 people come every sunday morning — team members split room quadrants, one always keeping bird’s-eye view back room, riser sound lighting equipment.the third layer protection one mr. darsey knows there, though trouble quantifying it. estimated 20 25 flock concealing weapon given sunday. “now that’s ones know about,” said.and weapons around. “including here,” said, opening drawer big wooden desk.around country, string threats attacks recent years led many houses worship take steps secure sanctuaries. 26 people killed first baptist church sutherland springs, tex., last sunday, one worst mass shootings american history deadliest ever church, many begun looking hard whether god’s protection might need armed backup.in plano, tex., prestonwood baptist church, megachurch 43,000 members model modern-day vigilance — off-duty police, private security, cameras monitored 24 hours day — offered hold seminar church security shooting last sunday.within 48 hours, 250 ministers lay leaders 100 churches four states signed up.“this caused every church country think security people, utmost importance,” said rev. mike buster, prestonwood’s executive pastor.but securing house worship poses different challenges securing public places like airports, schools theaters.for one thing, american congregations relatively small, lack staff budget extensive security. two-thirds churches united states fewer 100 regular attendees, adults children combined, according data national congregations study, many cases, part-time volunteer ministers.just important, many clergy members say mission houses worship leaves conflicted imposing security measures. church, temple mosque welcoming place, say, doors kept wide open strangers hurting.many say ministered people kinds crises — homelessness, drug addiction, domestic abuse, trouble law — without sure whether intent harm.“the safe thing isolate people, that’s wrong thing church,” said rev. bart barber, pastor first baptist church farmersville, tex., wrote essay christianity today security dilemma small rural churches.“we’re going cordon block, make people show i.d. fingerprint background check get worship service,” mr. barber said. “because people we’re afraid also people help.”but increasingly, clergy members felt necessary extra eyes, sometimes weapons, watching open doors.in last five years alone, shootings occurred churches, mosques, sikh temple jewish community center, forcing religious leaders nationwide confront issue safety. consultants started businesses focused church security, federal government offered limited grants houses worship install cameras hire guards. security camera image emanuel african methodist episcopal church charleston helped authorities quickly identify dylann s. roof gunman.church executive magazine recently suggested church leaders invite local police officers stop use restrooms meeting rooms, order acquaint church’s layout leadership emergency arises.in areas country many people carry guns, church security complicated question whether allow even encourage guns church.texas law allows houses worship bar firearms, many do, posting signs saying carrying guns onto property prohibited. united methodist church adopted resolution suggesting churches post signs 2016, part larger statement ending gun violence. mormon church policy says carrying firearms “inappropriate except required officers law.”all week, since massacre pews sutherland springs, rev. brady martin said members church, temple baptist church, gainesville, tex., coming office discuss protect church still welcoming. one asked whether sign posted front announcing church doesn’t allow open carrying firearms — showing gun slash — could actually sending message church vulnerable.“that something hadn’t actually thought through,” said, though added church reconsidering open-carry policy. (it allow concealed firearms.) “we thinking everybody open carry. would security nightmare.”he said church would send 12 people security seminar prestonwood. meantime, volunteer security team considering stationing members parking lot sunday services, inside.the rev. robert jeffress, pastor dallas megachurch, first baptist dallas, said interview fox news week felt safer knowing one-quarter half congregation carries concealed weapons services sunday.“if somebody tries church,” said attack sutherland springs, “they might get one shot off, two shots off, that’s last thing they’ll ever life.”mr. darsey, pastor redeemer georgia, acknowledged might find odd many deadly weapons brought building dedicated worshiping man book isaiah calls prince peace. cited romans 13, allows earthly authorities serve “agents wrath bring punishment wrongdoer.”there always chance, said, someone meant fire weapon protect innocents could end harming innocents themselves, would “nightmare scenario” church.“i’m southern fundamentalist thinking don’t see side issue,” said. “but is.”jason singleton, 36, among members brings handgun redeemer, case, strapped torso belly band. said would never pull gun merely fight. armed attacker, shooting innocents.“it would last resort,” said. “if took someone’s life would mine took someone else’s, think i’d o.k. answering that, by.”
roy moore, alabama senate candidate siege, tries discredit accusers gadsden, ala. — roy s. moore, embattled republican senate nominee alabama, moved saturday discredit women accused sexual misconduct, party’s powerful figures became increasingly desperate end campaign worried would undermine candidates nationwide.mr. moore least one battle efforts salvage candidacy — gov. kay ivey rebuffed calls postpone next month’s election, could leave republicans narrower majority washington — supporters detractors alike believed campaign remained jeopardy.“people waited four weeks prior general election bring complaints,” mr. moore, 70, said veterans day event vestavia hills, ala., near birmingham. “that’s coincidence — it’s intentional act stop campaign.”mr. moore denied allegations washington post published thursday, including molested 14-year-old girl, leigh corfman, 32. “i guilty sexual misconduct anyone,” said mr. moore, added “the highest regard protection young children.”he applause event saturday said “unbelievable” “grown woman would come forward” 40 years said overtures took place, close election fill seat attorney general jeff sessions held year. mr. moore, twice effectively removed state’s ranking jurist, noted long among scrutinized politicians alabama.“i’ve investigated person country,” said.although many mr. moore’s supporters alabama share fury expressed far harsher tones, republicans abandoning mr. moore since post published article, included allegations sexual advances three women.beyond public condemnations mr. moore, republicans searching ways short-circuit candidacy. favored pressing ms. ivey move dec. 12 special election. saturday, office abruptly cut discussion idea.“governor ivey considering plans move special election u.s. senate,” spokesman, daniel sparkman, said email. week, ms. ivey said allegations “deeply disturbing” “the people alabama deserve know truth make decisions.”although ms. ivey’s decision something relief mr. moore, republicans criticized cut ties twitter saturday. senator bob corker tennessee unsparing: “look, i’m sorry, even reports surfaced, roy moore’s nomination bridge far.” senator bill cassidy louisiana withdrew support, said, “based allegations roy moore, response, known.”mr. moore popular figure among many alabama republicans, party officials fear elected, albatross around necks lawmakers candidates nationwide years come. washington, republicans pleaded president trump, endorsed mr. moore’s opponent, senator luther strange, primary, intervene.but taking questions reporters aboard air force one flew hanoi, vietnam, mr. trump, accused multiple women sexual harassment, signaled reluctant reinsert alabama race endorsement thoroughly disregarded september.“i seen much him, it,” mr. trump said, noting put statement press secretary friday saying allegations true, mr. moore would “do right thing” withdraw.pressed allegations four women, mr. trump declined say whether believed accounts.“honestly, i’d look i’d see,” mr. trump said. “i’m dealing folks here, haven’t devoted — haven’t able devote much time it.”mr. trump said sticking statement, also said “a mere allegation,” particularly many years ago, enough ruin person’s life. rule abandoning mr. moore.“i get back country see what’s happening,” said.ms. corfman said saturday firestorm criticism mr. moore’s supporters — one them, state legislator, suggested prosecuted “for lying” — deterred her.“i stand story,” said.a lawyer gloria thacker deason, said dated mr. moore 18 30s, attacked mr. moore’s speech.“he knows full well women tell week,” lawyer, paula cobia, said email. “as young teenage girls late 1970s, way knowing rights, especially him, considering district attorney time.”ms. cobia demanded mr. moore “immediately retract defamatory statements.”
republicans try block moore’s path candidate denies sexual misconduct washington — senate republicans scrambled friday find way block roy s. moore’s path senate, exploring extraordinary measures rid nominee alabama accusations emerged made sexual advances four teenage girls 30s.mr. moore, meanwhile, remained defiant, insisting radio interview sean hannity would stay race. told mr. hannity, fox news host, endorsed mr. moore’s candidacy, “never contact” leigh corfman, woman told washington post mr. moore touched sexually 14, though deny dating teenagers.“i never known woman, anything,” said mr. moore, described accusations “politically motivated.”republican senators advisers, flurry phone calls, emails text messages, discussed fielding write-in candidate, pushing alabama’s governor delay dec. 12 special election even seating mr. moore elected. interview, senator mitch mcconnell kentucky, majority leader, declined say whether would agree seat mr. moore win. mr. mcconnell deferred question possible write-in campaign senator luther strange, current occupant seat, mr. strange.the senate republican campaign arm, mr. mcconnell effectively oversees, withdrew friday joint fund-raising agreement mr. moore’s campaign. senators mike lee utah steve daines montana rescinded endorsements candidate.the frenzy reflected worry senate seat held jeff sessions, attorney general, also broader danger republican party’s associated mr. moore.if doug jones, democratic nominee, wins next month, mr. mcconnell’s majority shrink one, possibly imperiling republican push overhaul tax code everything else lawmakers aiming reverse spiral midterm elections. could also raise least potential democrats could seize control senate 2018, holding endangered seats winning republican seats nevada arizona.but mr. moore wins, party faces potentially untenable prospect: welcoming child-molesting suspect ranks, move every republican candidate would answer for. raised memories todd akin, republican senate candidate 2012 said victims “legitimate rape” rarely got pregnant, assertion democrats hung around every candidate year.and mr. moore’s interview within sympathetic confines mr. hannity’s show, also initial safe harbor mr. akin 2012, made republicans capital determined step aside.“i don’t remember ever dating girl without permission mother,” mr. moore told mr. hannity. asked mr. hannity ever dated teenagers 30s, mr. moore equivocated, replying, “not generally, no.”some senate republicans encouraged mr. strange — lost mr. moore bitterly contested republican runoff election september — run write-in candidate, option mr. strange considering, according republicans spoken him. republicans believe would little play spoiler, ensuring either mr. moore elected taking votes mr. jones would otherwise get democrat wins siphoning support mr. moore among republicans seeking palatable third option.mr. mcconnell senator cory gardner colorado, chairman national republican senatorial committee, spoke mr. strange prospect immediately moore news broke thursday, according republicans familiar conversation. senator lisa murkowski alaska, re-election 2010 write-in candidate, planning discuss logistics mr. strange weekend.asked friday thought mr. strange run write-in candidate, mr. mcconnell said “you’d ask luther intentions are, given development.”republicans washington alabama also approached potential candidates write-in effort, including representative robert b. aderholt, mainstream conservative northern alabama. unclear prominent republican willing mount wild-card campaign senate unless mr. moore stands first.absent mr. moore’s cooperation, republicans washington conferred election lawyers explore long-shot options replacing marginalizing him, several would probably lead clash court mr. moore supporters.one approach republicans considering, according people briefed deliberations, would involve asking gov. kay ivey order new date election — sometime early next year — giving party time ease mr. moore race.alabama election law requires candidates withdraw least 76 days election order replaced ballot, deadline mr. moore already missed.state law gives governor broad authority set date special elections, ms. ivey, republican, already rescheduled senate election once, inheriting governor’s office april predecessor, robert bentley, resigned sex corruption scandal. ms. ivey’s advisers ruled exercising power again, according republicans touch camp, signaled would like reassurances support white house taking aggressive step.scott jennings, republican strategist close mr. mcconnell, said presidential intervention needed bring order situation alabama. suggested president trump could personally nudge mr. moore race back write-in campaign mr. strange, perhaps mr. sessions, popular figure alabama republicans.“you’ve got wild-card politician, may may support agenda, who’s got horrific allegations molestation child,” mr. jennings said, referring mr. moore. “it strikes people alabama would listen president.”a spokesman ms. ivey reply email asking intentions, contact nick ayers, vice president mike pence’s chief staff, according republican officials.but apparent precedent rescheduling election close planned vote, republicans acknowledged. addition state election laws, extreme step could also run afoul federal voting rights law.then possibility mr. moore stayed race won, members senate would deny seat.while sidestepping question whether would support extraordinary step, mr. mcconnell recalled how, relatively junior senator, pushed oust senator bob packwood, republican oregon, long-serving powerful figure, throng women came forward accuse mr. packwood sexually harassing abusing them.“i ended making motion expel chairman finance committee party, approved unanimously, subsequently resigned,” mr. mcconnell said. “so character count america united states senate.”while maintaining typically stoic public face, mr. mcconnell said highly irritated that, fended problematic candidates recent years, mr. moore instantly revived type difficulties republicans suffered mr. akin hard-liners.but alabama, republicans appeared far willing give mr. moore benefit doubt.“let’s let thing work out,” said trip pittman, state senator. “you’re innocent proven otherwise.”mr. pittman urged mr. moore aggressively rebut claims. that, said, would “really helpful.”alabama’s congressional republicans remained silent friday, wanting see emphatically mr. moore responded charges, conversations eventually issuing joint statement. rattled — moore story.as members state’s house delegation arrived thursday birmingham, ala., fund-raiser speaker paul d. ryan, hydraulic problems plane touched down. shortly enduring bumpy landing, phones lit reveal post’s report.for part, democrats appear ready join fray. party holding back, part fear getting involved could nationalize election compromise mr. jones’s brand independent-minded local candidate.but friday, democratic donors appeared increasingly interested race. stephen j. cloobeck, nevada hotel magnate contributed $500,000 last year senate-focused democratic “super pac,” described mr. moore “despicable” said would gladly direct money mr. jones.“if there’s event, participate, 14-year-old little girl, anyone touched her, i’d kill them,” mr. cloobeck said. “i’d kill them.”
u.s. sheds role climate change leader, fill void? bonn, germany — president trump announced june united states would withdraw paris agreement, america officially ceded global leadership climate change.the retreat actually begun months earlier, climate change disappeared government websites vanished america’s domestic international agendas. longer would united states federal government address climate change home raise global warming ministers heads state, former president barack obama cabinet routinely did.it dramatic shift, meant be.“i elected represent citizens pittsburgh, paris,” mr. trump said repudiating accord. “the paris climate accord simply latest example washington entering agreement disadvantages united states exclusive benefit countries.”since then, others taken climate leadership role. europe, chancellor angela merkel germany president emmanuel macron france vowed paris agreement flourish without united states. president xi jinping china canadian prime minister, justin trudeau, promoting countries climate change champions. united nations secretary general, antónio guterres, pulled nations together demand deeper emissions cuts. american governors, mayors business leaders forged coalition, even taking united states pavilion united nations climate talks bonn, germany, week.political analysts say it’s clear whether replace united states immense diplomatic machinery commands engaged issue. here’s look strengths leaders bring challenges face.president xi jinping didn’t mention mr. trump name opening communist party congress last month, meaning clear declared china taken “driving seat international cooperation respond climate change.” also criticized countries “retreat self-isolation.”many political analysts say china indeed moved dramatically climate change, meet pledge paris accord cap carbon emissions 2030, start world’s largest carbon market swiftly expand use electric cars. recent months, china hosted ministerial-level meetings clean energy joined canada european union lead discussions climate.robert n. stavins, director environmental economics program harvard university china recently discuss climate change, said seen dramatic shift tenor among chinese officials. “having engaged very, closely climate change obama administration co-leader, china appears quite content move co-leadership sole leadership,” said.yet skepticism abounds. country ahead paris target, china still burns coal country. also remains seen eager country allow greater transparency carbon reduction efforts, many fear revert old demands developing countries treated softer rules.for many years canada considered laggard climate change, leaving kyoto protocol rarely making impression united nations negotiations.that changed prime minister justin trudeau, cozied panda bears declared “canada back” paris global warming talks 2015. mr. trudeau said “deeply disappointed” united states’ decision withdraw paris deal, declaring “canada unwavering commitment fight climate change.”since then, made good much goal — doubling country’s contribution united nations science body sliding america’s place international arenas. september, example, canada hosted meeting world’s largest economies discuss climate change. american officials george w. bush administration created gathering, originally known major economies forum, continued mr. obama. trump administration essentially abandoned year.“if u.s. going step back, we’re going step up,” canada’s environment minister, catherine mckenna, said.but country still struggling deliver meaningful climate change policy home, mr. trudeau recent months approved bitumen pipelines liquid natural gas projects. activists canada say mr. trudeau wants true leader, he’ll reject new fossil fuel infrastructure — something steep perhaps unmeetable challenge.perhaps group made bigger splash world stage year coalition united states governors, mayors businesses call still coalition. informally led gov. jerry brown california; michael bloomberg, former mayor new york, gov. jay inslee washington, group vowed uphold paris agreement move ahead policies fight climate change.when trump administration opted united states pavilion bonn climate talks highlight american efforts climate change, mr. bloomberg others agreed pay it. american pavilion hosting sort shadow delegation local leaders say representing different face government. “i feel strongly america represented there,” mr. bloomberg said.yet without participation states, particularly fossil-fuel heavy, united states whole still fall short paris pledge, several analyses found.the obama administration gets lot credit helping forge paris agreement, reality europe insisted accord first place. since mr. trump’s withdrawal announcement, european leaders lost chance reassert guardians global climate change ambition.mr. macron particular continued champion agreement hammered nation’s capital. invited american scientists work climate change move france, pressed mr. trump several times remain deal. december, france host celebration paris agreement, united states yet invited. ms. merkel put climate change center group 20 summit world’s largest economies hamburg, germany, year.it’s clear much leaders’ efforts shift united states policy. frank v. maisano, partner law firm bracewell represents energy clients, said recently, “trump’s supporters don’t care macron yelling him. like that.”mr. gutteres stepped new role january, work say former prime minister portugal jumped feet. mr. guterres made sure climate change highlighted united nations general assembly, meeting former vice president al gore governor brown california discuss ways united nations promote solutions. also opened special session discuss climate change impact small islands several devastating hurricanes battered caribbean.robert c. orr, dean university maryland’s school public policy special adviser mr. guterres climate change, said united nations leader “putting stamp” climate change hosting major summit united nations headquarters new york 2018.
bannon put target back. mcconnell’s answer: ‘ha-ha.’ washington — senator mitch mcconnell, taciturn republican leader, watched stoically across capitol two years ago speaker john a. boehner resigned rather contend mounting troubles, restive conservatives band renegade republicans looking oust him.now mr. mcconnell target back.his party smarting losses ballot box last week virginia, new jersey off-year races across country. trio senate republicans running re-election gone rogue feel compunction fall line behind him. republican nominee senate, roy s. moore, accused improper sexual romantic conduct teenagers.and stephen k. bannon, president trump’s former chief strategist, vowing depose him, telling new york times “i objective mitch mcconnell majority leader, believe done time next year.” mr. mcconnell, added, “has go.”[how listen: don’t see audio player page, would like subscribe “the new washington” charge, follow instructions end article.]to that, mr. mcconnell laughed. “you write down,” said interview friday. “i laughed. ha-ha. that’s perfect response.”villainized president’s populist wing, mr. mcconnell nonetheless pressing forward conservative agenda hopes give mr. trump big wins — perhaps legacy. knows must pass tax overhaul coming weeks party hope holding united congress next year — remain majority leader. meantime, trying remake nation’s judiciary, stocking bench mr. trump’s judicial nominees.at 75, mr. mcconnell man words many sayings. among favorites: “losers go another line work winners come washington make policy.” and: “when you’re hit pebble, respond boulder.”the target boulder would appear mr. bannon, man whose name refuses utter, favoring “this particular individual” “that particular element party,” simply “they.”“their specialty nominating people lose november,” mr. mcconnell said acidly, adding, “when prevail, haven’t done recent years, lose, intention 2018 prevail anywhere.”mr. bannon urging senate candidates pledge vote mr. mcconnell majority leader, making campaign strikingly personal, “because senate mitch mcconnell outrageous lack support president trump’s agenda,” said.“why mitch mcconnell?” mr. bannon asked. “because institution majority leader much power, used power to, quite frankly, thwart president trump’s agenda.”mr. mcconnell shot back: “virtually everyone criticized, including myself, supports president 90 percent time.” added: “the way president’s agenda doesn’t get enacted particular element defeat enough senators general election hand senate democrats. that’s possible outcome kind mentality allowed prevail. assure not. not.”the battle mr. bannon puts leader precarious position. one hand, trying improve tenuous relationship mr. trump. other, finds fending attacks one president’s closest allies.“mitch calm, he’ll strategic, he’ll surgical eventually eviscerate mr. bannon, bannon won’t even know happened him,” said bill stone, former chairman republican party louisville close mr. mcconnell. “bannon dealing man intellect man experience man patience resolve like he’s never met life.”senator lamar alexander, republican tennessee one mr. mcconnell’s closest friends senate, said leader paying scant attention.“mitch experienced, he’s tough, he’s purposeful,” mr. alexander said. “he’s deflected irrelevant attacks.”but denizens “mcconnell world,” leader’s allies like call themselves, indifferent. plan campaign attack mr. bannon personally seek undermine credibility spotlighting controversial comments linking white nationalist groups.the first hints strategy surfaced press social media. mr. mcconnell’s former chief staff, josh holmes, referred mr. bannon “white supremacist” recent interview hill newspaper. senate leadership fund, political action committee closely aligned mr. mcconnell, recently took twitter circulate newspaper headline called mr. bannon anti-semite.for part, mr. bannon called charges “a hundred percent media fabrication” refuge opponents nothing else. “they think way run smearing nativist, misogynist, racist, homophobe,” said. “just go line.”(a recent article buzzfeed news used leaked documents emails directly link mr. bannon publication, breitbart news, right-wing provocateur milo yiannopoulos extreme elements rising white supremacist movement.)billy piper, lobbyist former chief staff mr. mcconnell, sees trouble brewing fight.“the worst fights often inside-the-family fights,” mr. piper said. “if don’t navigate waters right way, think inevitable result losing seats, that’s republicans’ interest certainly president’s interest. it’s challenging, mcconnell center that.”mr. mcconnell long celebrated brilliant tactician, struggling govern two-vote majority, record legislative accomplishments year thin. still grappling fallout senate’s failure repeal affordable care act.“there’s way put lipstick pig make look good,” said trent lott, former senate republican leader.mr. mcconnell also difficult relationship mr. trump. spent months feuding one another, conflict reached nadir august, mr. mcconnell privately told allies feared mr. trump could salvage presidency.“he use considerable diplomacy working white house elements administration,” said richard g. lugar, former republican senator lost re-election primary tea party challenger 2012, lost indiana seat democrat. “he understands human nature differing ambitions people. also understands responsibility. he’s leader. produce.”the two worked patch things white house lunch last month, followed 45-minute impromptu news conference rose garden left leader feeling buoyed — fellow republicans feeling relieved.“they focused tax agenda, think president realizes needs mitch order accomplish agenda,” said senator susan collins, republican maine.and string legislative losses, mr. mcconnell least point one win: senate recently confirmed four circuit court judges, bringing eight number federal appeals court judges chamber confirmed mr. trump’s presidency. afterward, mr. trump rewarded enthusiastic twitter praise: “our courts rapidly changing better!”mr. mcconnell makes case mr. trump’s lasting legacy come remaking federal judiciary putting conservative jurists bench — including justice neil m. gorsuch supreme court, seated mr. mcconnell refused allow hearings merrick garland, former president barack obama’s nominee.mr. mcconnell said “transforming judiciary” no. 1 priority, even higher tax overhaul. “the important decision i’ve made political career,” said, “was decision something; decision fill supreme court vacancy created death justice scalia.”____________on iphone ipad:open preloaded app called podcasts; purple icon. you’re reading phone, tap link, take straight there. (you also use magnifying glass icon search; type “the new washington.”)once you’re series page, tap episode title play it, tap “subscribe” button new episodes sent phone free.or prefer another podcast player, find “the new washington” there. (here’s rss feed.)on android phone tablet:you listen subscribe using free app radiopublic, available worldwide. you’re reading phone, tap link play latest episode learn app.or prefer another podcast player, find “the new washington” there. (here’s rss feed.)from desktop laptop:click “play” button start show. make sure keep window open browser you’re things, audio stop.
north korea, saudi arabia, manila: monday briefing good morning. here’s need know:• president rodrigo duterte philippines playing cordial host president trump nears end marathon asia tour.their provocative styles may mesh two days meetings manila regional leaders, philippine leader’s longer-term game court beijing billions dollars investment.on sunday, mr. trump abandoned trip’s scripted messaging, unloading twitter “haters fools” pressing investigation campaign’s russian ties. lashed back north korea described “lunatic old man,” calling leader “short fat.”_____• american proposal resolving decades-old israeli-palestinian conflict drawn president trump group advisers led jared kushner, son-in-law.the prospects peace caught web regional issues — notably saudi arabia’s growing confrontation iran lebanese militia backs, hezbollah, raised fears military conflict._____• reporters took temperature largest secretive u.s. intelligence branch, national security agency, gauging effect catastrophic security breach group calling shadow brokers first emerged 2016.current former officials said group’s repeated release u.s. secrets, including hacking tools used spy countries, ruined morale called question agency’s ability protect potent cyberweapons.“they whole law enforcement system intelligence system them,” one said mysterious hackers. “and haven’t caught.”_____• china? canada? u.n.? president trump pulled u.s. paris agreement, america officially ceded leadership climate change. here’s look leaders organizations, above, trying fill void.and climate talks underway bonn, germany, shadow u.s. delegation, including al gore, jerry brown michael bloomberg, trying convince nations u.s. “gone dark” climate change._____• singles day — china’s annual version black friday — entered staggering new territory.sales blazed past $1 billion within two minutes midnight start saturday. end day, alibaba reported sales hit record $25.3 billion, 40 percent higher 2016.jd.com, alibaba’s e-commerce rival, said sales singles day run-up reached $19 billion, 50 percent._____• queen elizabeth ii watched balcony sunday prince charles placed wreath cenotaph, britain’s memorial war dead, mark armistice day.often praised rigorous royal obligations, queen, 91, delegated duty charles, 68, move seen observers major step shift monarchy’s next generation._____• driverless vehicles may soon cease science fiction. times magazine’s tech & design issue ponders: happens then?• japan, canada, mexico eight countries together account sixth global trade said weekend resurrecting trans-pacific partnership, without u.s. new deal could announced soon early next year.• linkedin longer accept job ads individuals china, ran afoul new government regulations requiring verify identities.• here’s snapshot global markets.• thousands far-right nationalists marched poland’s capital, warsaw, weekend. since 2009, annual independence day march become magnet white supremacists far-right groups. [the new york times]• senior u.n. official vowed raise persecution myanmar’s rohingya minority, especially sexual violence torture, international criminal court. [reuters]• new zealand’s prime minister, jacinda ardern, called australia’s handling refugee crisis manus island “not acceptable” said would bring prime minister malcolm turnbull asean summit meeting manila. [abc]• spain’s prime minister, mariano rajoy, visited catalonia day massive pro-independence march. urged huge turnout next month’s elections return region “normality.” [the new york times]• police japan said six nine victims whose mutilated bodies found man’s apartment signaled interested suicide. [the asahi shimbun]• rare collaboration, china taiwan working together predict earthquakes space. [south china morning post] tips, new old, fulfilling life.• social media, carefully used, help advance career.• there’s magic formula getting selective college, tips u.s.-based writer covers admissions.• recipe day: making maple breakfast sausage easier think.• sizzling meat, crispy chicken, lots beer. reviewer went deep melbourne find joomak, hidden gem offers “wicked brilliance” korean food touches los angeles australia.• growing list hollywood players accused sexual misconduct — includes comedian louis c.k. — raises question: away idea “separating art artist”?• fashion critic discusses melania 2.0. first lady unveiled softer, subtle look grand tour asia — yet missed it. (and one complained wore one asian designer.)an engineering marvel time, new york city’s holland tunnel opened day 90 years ago.the designer, clifford holland, oversaw many innovative developments pair 1.6-mile tubes, including meeting extraordinary challenge guaranteeing sufficient ventilation. highly stressed, died heart attack 41.that several years tunnel opened, missed debate whether ban horse-drawn vehicles. above, tunnel construction 1922.perhaps we’re used taking note competition world’s tallest building (currently burj khalifa dubai, saudi contender, jeddah tower, hoping complete construction 2019).but there’s global race tunnels, too. europe currently claims longest traffic tunnels: 35-mile swiss achievement; 31-mile “chunnel” english channel; norway’s singular laerdal tunnel, even hosted weddings.then there’s tokyo’s aqua-line, 8.7 miles underwater channel miles bridge riding atop.china, ever competitive seeks meet needs upward billion people, aims build world’s longest water tunnel: 600-mile conduit tibet desert xinjiang.andrea kannapell contributed reporting. _____your morning briefing published weekday mornings updated online. browse past briefings here. briefings timed australian, asian, european american mornings. australia bureau chief offers weekly letter adding analysis conversations readers. sign times newsletters here.what would like see here? contact us asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
roy moore, donald trump, saudi arabia: weekend briefing week’s top stories, look ahead.1. we’re keeping close eye baffling, fast-moving developments middle east fueling anxieties possible military conflict lebanon. above, poster key player — lebanon’s prime minister, missing — put beirut.the full rundown here. short form: impulsive young saudi crown prince 200 royal relatives businessmen arrested, consolidating power sharply escalating proxy war iran threatens millions people yemen starvation.as speculation built kingdom could holding lebanese prime minister hostage, leader shiite militia hezbollah, iranian ally, said saudis asked israel attack lebanon. least four countries urged citizens leave lebanon. saudis would play major role “the ultimate deal” president trump’s advisers working peace israelis palestinians.____2. asia, president trump nearing end lengthy trip less discipline started it. notably, sought woo chinese president, xi jinping, flattery, came away significant concessions north korea looming trade disputes. above, trumps forbidden city beijing.mr. trump pressed case “america first” trade policies regional forum vietnam, striking jarring note leaders supported obama administration’s efforts close trans-pacific partnership trade deal. comments also sharply contrasted mr. xi’s projection cooperation engagement minutes later stage.our photographer traveling mr. trump, documenting stop 12-day trip. president returns u.s. manila tuesday.____3. upon return, president trump find republican party disarray. year election, anger helped fuel strong democratic turnout suburbs rising coalition women, minorities, gay transgender people gave democrats groundbreaking wins across country.and republican senators exploring ways stymie candidacy roy moore senate seat alabama emergence allegations made sexual advances teenagers 30s. mr. moore denied sexual misconduct moving discredit women came forward.the accusations distracting senate republicans’ newly unveiled tax plan, diverges evolving house bill key ways. both, however, would raise taxes millions middle-class families.____4. “these stories true.” comedian louis c.k. confirmed accounts five women field accusing asking watch masturbate.he one least 20 men accused sexual misconduct since reported allegations harassment worse harvey weinstein last month. kevin spacey others, louis c. k.’s media partners severing ties.our writer amanda hess argues it’s time away notion artists work must considered independently.____5. funerals begun victims shooting first baptist church sutherland springs, tex. small town’s cemetery struggling figure manage burials two dozen victims devin kelley’s killing spree.the former airman’s court-martial conviction charges assaulting first wife toddler stepson prevented legally buying weapons. air force authorities investigating information wasn’t entered federal database firearms background checks. “he problem problem problem,” said former air force staff sergeant said years ago, feared would “shoot place.”one most-read articles week interpreter column examined mass shootings around world found explanation extraordinary prevalence mass shootings america. (it’s likely surprise you.)____6. “he said didn’t meddle — asked again.” president trump told reporters believed vladimir putin sincere repeated denials involvement u.s. election last year.the russian president’s account squarely odds u.s. intelligence agencies, whose assessments mr. trump dispute sunday. comments came new information emerged 2016 meeting joseph mifsud, left, maltese professor, told trump campaign adviser george papadopoulos “thousands emails” could used hillary clinton.____7. writing vows column, arms conflict reporter c.j. chivers revisits story former marine rifleman post-traumatic stress disorder woman loved since childhood, above. mr. chivers’s profile marine, sam siatta, earned pulitzer prize spring.and modern love column began 13 years ago. we’re celebrating milestone following resonant essays sharing 13-word love stories readers (“i thought straight. thought straight. wrong.”).____8. reporters dived deep paradise papers, 13.4-million-document leak illuminates trillions dollars move offshore tax shelters.much information focuses law firm bermuda, whose offices pictured above, helped wealthy clients including madonna, bono queen elizabeth ii invest, helped major u.s. colleges skirt taxes endowments.____9. checked hurricane recovery.in houston, pictured mid-october, much devastation direct result quintessentially american defiance nature’s boundaries. latest installment immersive changing climate, changing cities series focuses rebuilding coastal city says diverging attitudes toward, among things, race, liberty science.in puerto rico, figures show 472 people died september compared month last year, sharp contrast official storm death toll 55. parts u.s. virgin islands, day-to-day survival continues struggle.the governors puerto rico u.s. virgin islands testify senate committee hurricane recovery tuesday.____10. “saturday night live,” shortage targets amid growing number accusations sexual misconduct prominent men, including louis c.k. roy moore (played mikey day, left).but episode, hosted “girls trip” star tiffany haddish featuring musical guest taylor swift, accused got rougher treatment others.____11. finally, it’s time talk turkey.thanksgiving less two weeks away. haven’t started planning, don’t panic.our food section walks “400-degree thanksgiving” (one oven, four burners single day work) vivid video guidance. four rules thanksgiving wines, argument beer-and-bird pairing, rundown essential kitchen equipment, suggestion casserole everyone table.have great week._____your weekend briefing published sundays 6 a.m. eastern.and don’t miss morning briefing, weekdays 6 a.m. eastern, evening briefing, weeknights 6 p.m. eastern.want look back? browse past morning evening briefings.if photographs appear order, please download updated new york times app itunes google play.what like? want see here? let us know briefing@nytimes.com.
cancer doctors cite risks drinking alcohol american society clinical oncology, represents many nation’s top cancer doctors, calling attention ties alcohol cancer. statement published tuesday journal clinical oncology, group cites evidence even light drinking slightly raise woman’s risk breast cancer increase common type esophageal cancer.heavy drinkers face much higher risks mouth throat cancer, cancer voice box, liver cancer and, lesser extent, colorectal cancers, group cautions.“the message not, ‘don’t drink.’ it’s, ‘if want reduce cancer risk, drink less. don’t drink, don’t start,’” said dr. noelle loconte, associate professor university wisconsin-madison lead author asco statement. “it’s different tobacco say, ‘never smoke. don’t start.’ little subtle.”other medical groups cited risks alcohol possible cause cancer. first time asco taken stand.drinking all, well heavy drinking problem drinking, rise united states affect segments society, including women, older adults, racial ethnic minorities poor, several surveys shown.yet adults, asked, identify alcohol consumption risk factor cancer, even though vast majority familiar cancer risk factors, like smoking sun exposure, recent asco survey 4,016 adults found. fewer one three adults identified alcohol risk factor cancer. (most also failed mention obesity risk factor.)the doctors’ group also calling new public health initiatives curb alcohol use, taxes restrictions ads targeting minors, like new ban alcohol advertising new york city’s subways buses slated go effect january. group likewise opposes “pink washing,” alcohol companies drape products pink ribbon enhance sales, practice opposes “given consistent evidence shows link alcohol consumption increased risk breast cancer.”for statement, asco researchers reviewed earlier published studies concluded 5.5 percent new cancers 5.8 percent cancer deaths worldwide could attributed alcohol. paper stated clearly alcohol plays causal role cancers throat neck, voice box, liver colon, well esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and, women, breast cancer.for women, one alcoholic drink day increase breast cancer risk, according report released may american institute cancer research world cancer research fund cited asco. report analyzed 119 studies, including data 12 million women quarter million breast cancer cases, concluded strong evidence alcohol consumption increases risk pre- postmenopausal cancer, drinking small glass wine beer every day — 10 grams alcohol — increases premenopausal breast cancer risk 5 percent postmenopausal risk 9 percent.“the drink, higher risk,” said dr. clifford a. hudis, chief executive asco. “it’s pretty linear dose-response.”even drink moderately, defined centers disease control one daily drink women two men, face nearly doubling risk mouth throat cancer double risk squamous cell carcinoma esophagus, compared nondrinkers. moderate drinkers also face elevated risks cancers voice box, female breast cancer colorectal cancers.the risk heavy drinkers — defined eight drinks week women 15 week men, including binge drinkers — multiples higher. heavy drinkers face roughly five times risk mouth throat cancers squamous cell esophageal cancers nondrinkers, nearly three times risk cancers voice box larynx, double risk liver cancer, well increased risks female breast cancer colorectal cancer.“if look figures, see alcohol contributing factor; certainly causal role,” dr. hudis said.the international agency research cancer, part world health organization, first classified consumption alcoholic beverages carcinogenic humans 1987, tying consumption cancers mouth, throat, voice box, esophagus liver, said susan gapstur, vice president epidemiology american cancer society.since then, said, evidence accumulated tying alcohol broader group cancers, including colorectal cancer and, women, breast cancer. recent i.a.r.c. report concluded alcohol “is cause cancers oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, colorectum, liver female breast.” (the esophageal cancer largely specific squamous cell carcinoma.)“the story alcohol quite consistent peeled away like onion time, we’re continuing learn mechanisms involved,” dr. gapstur said. “we don’t randomized trials, sometimes start looking coherence evidence, including observational epidemiology, lab studies, mechanistic studies, begin see picture get clarity.”one way alcohol may lead cancer body metabolizes acetaldehyde, causes changes mutations dna, dr. gapstur said. formation acetaldehyde starts alcohol comes contact bacteria mouth, may explain link alcohol cancers throat, voice box esophagus, suggested.dr. anne mctiernan, scientist fred hutchinson cancer research center author one earlier reports alcohol breast cancer, said pleased oncologists focusing alcohol.“that puts weight behind this,” said. “shows they’re serious willing put name line changes policy, willing say even small amounts alcohol increase risks cancers small degree.”
trump administration guiding health shoppers agents paid insurers washington — cutting funds nonprofit groups help people obtain health insurance affordable care act, trump administration encouraging use insurance agents brokers often paid insurers help people sign up.the administration said recent bulletin “increasing partnerships” insurance agents viewed “important stakeholders” federal marketplace, consumers shopping insurance. health policy experts warned shift nonprofit groups, supposed provide impartial information, brokers agents, may receive commissions plans recommend, carries risks consumers.“insurance agents educate consumers marketplace, good thing,” said sabrina corlette, research professor georgetown university’s health policy institute. “but worry work commission therefore financial incentive steer consumers particular products, may may consumer’s best interest.”in bulletin, administration said agents brokers registered federal marketplace “get sales leads” new clients. offered tips “making marketplace participation open enrollment period,” runs dec. 15.consumers get contact information agents brokers, well nonprofit groups known navigators, clicking “find local help” healthcare.gov.from there, consumers connect service administration added year specifically connect licensed agents brokers provide immediate assistance.“get help now!” says federal website describing new service, called help demand. “a marketplace-registered agent broker contact 30 minutes less help enroll. agents’ brokers’ services generally free you. they’re usually paid insurance companies.”more 43,000 agents brokers received training certified sell health plans federal marketplace. advocates said could provide lifeline consumers confusing troubled marketplace.michael lujan, former president california association health underwriters, called agents “the unsung heroes health care marketplace.”“the trump administration set sabotage affordable care act defunding many nonprofit navigator groups,” mr. lujan said. “agents help fill gap.”agents brokers recommend specific health insurance plans typically receive commissions paid insurers whose plans sell. contrast, nonprofit navigators “assisters” cannot recommend specific plans. fact, trump administration recently warned navigators could accept payment insurer could paid even organizations per-application per-enrollee basis.the website help demand service operated bigwave systems, privately held technology company colorado, “in partnership healthcare.gov,” federal marketplace.personal financial information provided consumers confidential. assessment prepared department health human services says, “bigwave systems makes warranties representations regarding security data submitted help demand application, use help demand website consumer’s risk.”marcia benshoof, spokeswoman bigwave systems, said personal information encrypted stored behind firewall unauthorized disclosures.the administration reduced funds navigator program 41 percent, $36.9 million, $62.9 million last year. among states hit hardest, according data provided congress administration, georgia, 61 percent; michigan, 72 percent; new jersey, 62 percent; ohio, 71 percent.a survey kaiser family foundation found insurance agents nonprofit navigator groups differed ways. people using agents last year less likely uninsured less likely income low enough qualify medicaid, said.california one successful health insurance marketplaces country, studied lessons learned experience.“agents funded health plan commissions incentive resources promote overall marketplace,” said peter v. lee, executive director state’s exchange. added, “many small-business owners trusted voices communities,” enrolled hundreds thousands people california.agents enrolled 47 percent people coverage year state-run insurance marketplace known covered california. contrast, nonprofit navigator groups generated 3 percent enrollment, according agency runs state marketplace. many customers said bought insurance without receiving assistance.patricia r. martin chardon, ohio, said always health insurance large company husband worked. died suddenly 54, said, find coverage, local agent provided invaluable assistance.“health insurance boggles mind,” ms. martin said. “it’s fine go online, i’d much rather deal person. complete faith agent.”the open enrollment period federal marketplace lasts 45 days. nicholas a. moriello, insurance agent delaware, said agents “do marketing outreach customers” throughout year typically receive commission fee month consumer remains enrolled health plan.“agents brokers able provide recommendations consumers, that’s something they’ve really needed trying evaluate choices,” mr. moriello said. “but way federal funding reduced navigators, insurance companies around country reduced compensation pay agents brokers, states eliminated altogether. fear year’s open enrollment, may reduction number agents brokers consumers turn to.”but rising premiums, shrinking options much confusion, consumers need help.kelly l. rector, insurance broker o’fallon, mo., near st. louis, said many clients “being required give physicians” anthem blue cross blue shield pulling local market company entering market, centene, “a slimmer network fewer doctors choose from.”besides increase premiums 2018, ms. rector said, “the biggest issue clients unable continue see current doctors.”
excuses, people: get new shingles vaccine medical researchers government health policymakers, cautious lot, normally take pains keep expectations modest they’re discussing new finding treatment.they warn studies’ limitations. point isn’t known. emphasize correlation doesn’t mean causation.so it’s startling hear prominent experts sound positively excited new shingles vaccine advisory committee centers disease control prevention approved last month.“this really sea change,” said dr. rafael harpaz, veteran shingles researcher c.d.c.dr. william schaffner, preventive disease specialist vanderbilt university school medicine, said, “this vaccine spectacular initial protection rates every age group. immune system 70- 80-year-old responds person 25 30.”“this really looks breakthrough vaccinating older adults,” agreed dr. jeffrey cohen, physician researcher national institutes health.what’s causing enthusiasm: shingrix, pharmaceutical firm glaxosmithkline intends begin shipping month. large international trials shown vaccine prevents 90 percent shingles cases, even older ages.the currently available shingles vaccine, called zostavax, prevents half shingles cases age 60 demonstrated far less effectiveness among elderly patients.yet people risk blistering disease, often intense pain, threat vision associated nerve pain sometimes last months, even years, initial rash fades.almost older americans harbor varicella zoster virus causes shingles; acquired childhood chickenpox, whether knew disease not.the virus stays dormant until, unknown reasons, erupts decades later. risk rises sharply age 50.shingles hardly minor menace. “a million cases occur united states every year,” dr. schaffner said. “if you’re fortunate enough reach 80th birthday, stand one-in-three one-in-two chance shingles.”preventing great majority cases — along risk lingering debilitating nerve pain, called postherpetic neuralgia — would represent major advance public health.so old vaccine remain market, c.d.c. committee voted make shingrix preferred vaccine recommended adults age 50 — group younger decade earlier encouraged get zostavax.the committee also recommended shingrix adults who’ve previously gotten zostavax, since smaller study people age 65 demonstrated effectiveness safety already vaccinated. food drug administration approved shingrix last month.once c.d.c.’s director endorses committee’s recommendations, agency publishes them, insurers — including medicare medicaid — start covering vaccine.“by early 2018, broadly available consumers u.s.,” said dr. thomas breuer, chief medical officer gsk vaccines. (canada also approved shingrix; awaits approval australia, japan europe.)what makes new vaccine promising, especially older adults?* provides better protection shingles start. though zostavax, introduced 2006, reduce shingles cases half (and postherpetic neuralgia two-thirds), overall rate conceals big differences age.that vaccine’s effectiveness drops 64 percent people 60s 38 percent among age 70, falls still lower people 80s.but new vaccine protects nearly well older groups middle-aged. shingrix racked 97 percent effectiveness rate adults age 50 and, separate study people age 70, prevented 90 percent shingles 70 well past age 80.“in groups elderly, often don’t maintain vigorous responses vaccines, represents extremely strong disease protection,” said dr. kathleen dooling, epidemiologist c.d.c.* shingrix’s protection appears last longer. among seniors, effectiveness zostavax wanes disappointing speed. “after 11 years, protection close zero,” dr. harpaz said.regulators don’t yet 11 years data shingrix, samples, remained effective six years longer, according gsk. greatly reduce incidence postherpetic neuralgia, too, assuming 42 million people 50s start getting vaccinated.* new vaccine may protect people compromised immune systems.a substantial number older americans suppressed immunity they’re undergoing chemotherapy transplants, h.i.v. take steroids. them, previous vaccine off-limits made weakened live virus.yet immune suppression leaves people vulnerable shingles. shingrix, recombinant vaccine made glycoprotein combination immunity boosters called adjuvants, doesn’t pose danger.the c.d.c. committee held recommending shingrix immunocompromised, gsk still running trials patients. since f.d.a. declare shingrix contraindicated approving it, get vaccine it’s available.public health advocates foresee couple potential problems.first, shingrix requires two doses, administered least two months apart. prodding older population get single shot proved tough: barely 31 percent age 60 vaccinated shingles. much harder persuade people get two shingrix injections?further, “it tends bit ouch-y vaccine,” dr. schaffner cautioned.in studies, older recipients said they’d experienced pain, redness swelling upper arms day two shot, 8.5 percent age 70 deemed symptoms uncomfortable enough interfere normal activities.about half age 70 reported systemic side effects like fatigue, fever aching joints, lasting one two days. physicians pharmacists prepare people reactions, dr. schaffner said.“if people anticipate it, they’ll cope better. they’ll take couple tylenol” — worry something seriously wrong.they may feel pocketbook pain, too. zostavax expensive adult vaccine, $140 dose (plus cost administering injection), shingrix pricier still.the 50- 65-year-old cohort, many coverage employee health plans, may find much barrier. older ages, cost matters more.medicare cover shingrix part (like predecessor), part b like flu vaccine. complicates reimbursement seeking vaccination doctors’ offices, medicare patients probably find simpler head pharmacy.but medicare recipients part d, could face co-payments.still, it’s contest: hazards shingles complications dwarf problems yet reported shingrix.“compared shingles, little arm pain day small price pay,” dr. schaffner said. “if know people who’ve illness, you’ll first line vaccine.”
war end wars doesn’t trick q. seems though city parks monuments world war world war ii. why?a. you’re imagining things. 120 world war memorials city parks. that’s almost twice number world war ii monuments, despite resounding american triumph general popularity latter conflict, mention much higher toll took soldiers united states.there reasons this. chief among shift optimism “war end wars” sobriety looming standoff soviet union. city topics mid-20th century, planning czar robert moses played role, too.world war first conflict large number american soldiers went overseas fight. 400,000 new york state fought, 10 percent american troops. war ended, seemed like every organization city wanted honor local veterans.there monuments local residents, like pleasant plains memorial, honoring veterans staten island’s fifth ward, military units, like central park’s 305th infantry memorial grove.thousands smaller remembrances also dotted urban landscape: tree planted here, plaque church there.this variety, mention sheer quantity, sit well moses, parks commissioner 1934 1960. considered many first world war monuments eyesores, sought restrict number world war ii memorials one per borough.although moses eventually softened opinion, initial stance probably dampened enthusiasm building plethora monuments.moses entirely blame; nation’s attitudes toward war changed considerably. world war ii destroyed notion “lasting peace.” classical statue angel soldier could properly reflect horrors concentration camps. many felt prudent wait enough time passed put war proper perspective.
dealbook briefing: senators want answers at&t negotiations good afternoon. justice department president trump willing block mergers previously thought? may depend kind transactions we’re talking about. group senators sent letter d.o.j. demanding answers whether president trump influencing department’s negotiations at&t. latest developments tax overhaul remain minds, especially since senate proposing delaying cut corporate rate 2019. moment.breaking: senator amy klobuchar, ranking member antitrust subcommittee, group seven senators sent letter department justice demanding answers questions posed months ago whether president trump pressured d.o.j. force sale cnn part at&t’s acquisition time warner:the senators continued:— andrew ross sorkinmany, many deal makers believed trump presidency would good mergers within media telecom industries. companies felt need get bigger, thanks ever-increasing competition — much inspiration came at&t’s planned $85.4 billion takeover time warner. week.think many deals works, analysts say works. sinclair process buying tribune. disney briefly held talks buying 21st century fox. sprint t-mobile single potentially ready mingle. on.is justice department president trump willing block mergers previously thought? may depend kind transactions we’re talking about. federal communications commission chairman ajit pai wrote nyt op-ed defending plans ease restrictions owning newspapers television station market. case at&t, justice department arguing owning wireless service provider, hbo, turner broadcasting’s cable channels directv much control one company have.seeing conspiracies: rich greenfield btig pose provocative question latest research report:gabe sherman vanity fair also writes theory: “we’ve heard musings reporting, can’t tell seriously executives believe them.”trouble world’s biggest oil exporter — arrests royals, saber-rattling toward lebanon — making many energy industry nervous. analysts goldman sachs, commerzbank julius baer think oil prices could rise it, according bloomberg.what’s driving shocks: crown prince mohammed says he’s modernizing saudi economy cracking corruption. madawi al-rasheed london school economics questions nyt op-ed:don’t count staying ritz-carlton anytime soonper andy critchlow s.&p. global platts:and bloomberg reports second hotel riyadh — far less swanky courtyard marriott — limits bookings “local higher authorities.”in saudi news• wealthy saudis already moving assets region avoid getting caught recent crackdown. (bloomberg)• mckinsey & company hired least eight relatives high-ranking saudi officials, paid millions advise kingdom vision 2030 economic plan. (the consultancy says hired merit.) (wsj)• british government poised provide $2 billion loan guarantee aramco, denies move linked lobbying london listing oil company. (ft)corporate america initially reacted well could expected senate republicans proposed changing corporate rate 2019. (the wsj editorial board argues delay acceptable, senate bill includes full expensing business expenses.)that’s issue, course. republicans reconcile differences senate house tax plans.carl hulse nyt notes republicans appear willing risk lot tax overhaul:from conference: howard schultz starbucks attacked plan, saying, “this tax reform. tax cut. fool’s gold.”more tax notes• house proposal squeaked senate limits additions national debt, helping efforts reconcile two bills. (axios)• jim stewart says house plan tweak — eliminate — so-called carried interest loophole favors investor class. (nyt)• david leonhardt wants rename house bill “paul ryan’s 2017 tax increase middle-class families.” (nyt)____________________________today’s dealbook briefing written andrew ross sorkin new york, michael j. de la merced amie tsang london.____________________________is gary cohn going regret saying interview cnbc? trying explain corporate america’s enthusiasm tax overhaul, isn’t quite messaging white house mind. (dealbreaker’s headline: “gary cohn tacitly reveals slept years goldman sachs media training.”)mr. cohn also committed staying administration, even though passed federal reserve chairman.he also said this: mr. cohn told cnbc thought mr. trump lloyd blankfein, former boss, many similarities. mr. blankfein, democrat publicly criticized president, later told cnbc, “i don’t mind comparison.”thirteen newsmakers joined us dealbook conference thursday, many made news. here’s said:• at&t’s c.e.o., randall l. stephenson, said selling cnn push company’s acquisition time warner hasn’t table — never be.• “the culture went wrong, governance went wrong, board went bad direction. think winning gives excuses bad behavior,” dara khosrowshahi said first public interview since becoming uber’s chief.uber suffered blow friday employment tribunal london ruled company would able treat drivers self-employed contractors, calling operating model question.• mellody hobson, president ariel investments, asked, “where corporate kaepernick?”• mark cuban said “considering” presidential run.catch andrew’s conversations here.mr. stephenson made clear. also emerging apparent attempt depoliticize increasingly heated dispute justice department: a&t chief told andrew trump administration never asked sell cnn, didn’t believe “trump factor” talks.(to clear: we’ve reported at&t asked sell either turner broadcasting, time warner division includes cnn, directv. mr. stephenson didn’t comment specific requests.)that raises questions justice department really seeking. it, trump critics suggest, attack news outlet president openly criticized? attempt break deal become lightning rod concerns rapidly consolidating media industry, perhaps rooted administration’s populist tendencies?where go here: “if feel like litigation better outcome, litigate,” mr. stephenson told andrew. two sides still negotiating — including public — settlement could still happen.more food thought• meet makan delrahim, head justice department’s antitrust division administration’s point person time warner deal, profiled cecilia kang nyt.• “should quickly conclude justice department something wrong? maybe not,” tim wu columbia law school writes nyt op-ed.• president trump’s public criticisms cnn could hurt legitimate legal arguments justice department would bring sued block time warner deal, according david shepardson jan wolfe reuters.• f.c.c.’s chairman, ajit pai, defended forthcoming move relax media ownership rules nyt op-ed.hbo severed ties comedian nyt reported allegations abuse five women. fx, hosts critically acclaimed show “louie,” said “very troubled” report conducting review.more accusations emerged yesterday• roy moore’s candidacy alabama senate seat took serious blow yesterday wapo reported accusations sexual overtures four women, including one 14 time. could endanger republicans’ hold legislative body. (wapo)• hotelier andré balazs accused groping women. (nyt)• kater gordon, former writer “mad men,” accused show’s creator, matthew weiner, sexual harassment. (the information)a government move lift foreign ownership limits banks insurers china music western firms’ ears. tied mr. trump’s visit, initiative let finally let gain tiny foothold there. ubs executive told reuters, “china key market ubs and, indicated previously, continue work towards increasing stake ubs securities co ltd.”not everyone convinced wall street firms take china, however, since state-run banks remain powerful.goldman makes move: firm announced $5 billion investment vehicle china’s sovereign wealth fund help invest american manufacturers — help companies gain access chinese market.— sean parker, former facebook executive, interview axios social network’s effects humans society.• bytedance, owns news personalization app toutaio, bought musical.ly, app sharing videos people singing dancing along music, much $1 billion, according people familiar matter. (wsj)• settlement apple could preserve qualcomm’s independence broadcom — depends chip maker apple considers malleable counterpart. (breakingviews)• snap went public, bankers, investors, analysts employees concerns growth prospects. fever big listing, allowed company set terms. (wsj)• equifax incurred $87.5 million expenses related giant data breach year faces dozens government investigations result. (nyt)• new york’s attorney general subpoenaed tiaa, insurance investment company, seeking documents information relating sales practices, according people briefed inquiry. (nyt)• carlyle exploring sale initial public offering ortho-clinical diagnostics could value company $7 billion including debt, according people familiar matter. (reuters)each weekday, dealbook reporters new york london offer commentary analysis day’s important business news. want email inbox? here’s sign-up.you find live updates dealbook coverage throughout day nytimes.com/dealbook.follow andrew ross sorkin @andrewrsorkin, michael j. de la merced @m_delamerced amie tsang @amietsang twitter.we’d love feedback experiment writing, format design briefing. please email thoughts suggestions bizday@nytimes.com.
late well-versed korean food: joomak melbourne melbourne, australia — hard argue barbecue fried chicken. two foods snaked way australian restaurant zeitgeist like recent years, edible americana become ubiquitous here. two giants southern cookery also culinary emissaries korean culture. ambassadors go, can’t get much charming irresistible sizzling meats crispy chicken served plenty beer.there much korean food, however, greasy darlings, places melbourne explore vast deliciousness. get decent bibimbap there, kimchi shows cafe menus almost often dukkah days. much harder find bubbling caldrons jjigae, turned blazing scarlet kimchi chiles, dotted pork bulbous clouds soon tofu.in book, stews life’s elemental necessary dishes. sure, barbecue fried chicken make fantastic companions beer rice-based liquors, korean cuisine wicked brilliance comes drunk-food seen melbourne. found joomak.it easy feat: joomak, opened 2010, basement personality-less swanston street office building melbourne’s central business district, street signage indicating right location. enter building feeling wholly unsure descending flight stairs lead heavy wooden door. though name restaurant staircase, note basement door explains business cash-only, step room entirely sure found place. help map apps phone put joomak nearby alley, encountered bewildered would-be customers searching entrance dumpsters. use street address, name restaurant.who cramming long, low room, booths tucked nooks along sides? mainly young people speaking korean. blended sochu fruit slushies (the pineapple version best) pitchers, unfiltered rice wine tap, served metal teakettles drunk shallow metal bowls. food goes drinking: corn kernels heaped pile smothered melted cheese; egg rolls stuffed cheese fish roe; yes, spicy pan-fried chicken.i came jjigae, listed english joomak’s menu “kimchi pork soup tofu,” presumably word “jjigae” yet make lexicon non-korean-speaking australian. came bubbling black caldron, satiated lust piquant, porky comfort. certainly better versions. joomak’s kimchi pancake could hang best them, perfectly greasy crisped crust giving way slightly creamy interior, proficient soaking booze street pizza. (the seafood pancake pretty fine, too.) spicy chicken gizzards, sizzling platter, lose bouncy magic cool rubbery nubs. first bites fantastic.there common theory los angeles’s giant korean population koreatown neighborhood strong influence korean food culture worldwide. america high-quality beef, one result beef-based dishes. see joomak “l.a.-style short ribs,” cut thin cooked crispy, flesh sweet soy garlic.australia subtle influences, too. “school prawns,” common bar snack fried shrimp, much different joomak number melbourne pubs, eaten head-on served aioli. dish kabana sausage stir-fried vegetables ultimate multicultural mash-up — korean take australian version polish sausage.a helpful hint: call ahead make booking. joomak one melbourne’s rare extremely-late-night licenses, likely taking advantage late hours decide wander without warning. efficient, harried staff take name quote two-to-three-hour wait table. nowhere restaurant wait. go drink somewhere else check back phone intermittently. persistence pays off.in seoul, los angeles, youth culture food culture inextricably intertwined, much like fashion tokyo hip-hop atlanta. ancient methods ingredients still respected, force drives creativity excitement revenue restaurant industry food-obsessed millennials. midnight friday nights, swanston street packed young people korean, vietnamese chinese descent, energy foretells melbourne bound become increasingly influenced asian youth culture.through door stairs, joomak window culture late-night, sochu-soaked vibrancy.do suggestion besha rodell? new york times’s australia bureau would love hear you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com join discussion nyt australia facebook group. read australia fare column here.follow nyt food facebook, instagram, twitter pinterest. get regular updates nyt cooking, recipe suggestions, cooking tips shopping advice.
australian rightists pub slur iranian-born senator ‘terrorist’ sydney, australia — senator sam dastyari trying order drink melbourne wednesday night interrupted bar unfriendly patrons.a group three men, identifying members patriot blue, far-right group, walked began hurling racial slurs lawmaker, member australian labor party.“you terrorist,” one man heard saying video uploaded facebook. “you little monkey.” then, following mr. dastyari around pub, continue throw insults way. “why don’t go back iran, terrorist?”the lawmaker initially tried brush insults aside called out.“honestly, think guys bunch racists. don’t time you,” said mr. dastyari, iranian heritage nonpracticing muslim.in radio interview thursday morning, mr. dastyari said rise white nationalism needed confronted.“we heading horrible place politics can’t civil disagreement, can’t civil debate,” said abc melbourne.after video spread around internet, politicians major parties australia condemned slurs aimed mr. dastyari.“there room racial vilification australia,” prime minister malcolm turnbull told “sunrise” program channel seven thursday. added country “zero tolerance racism.”bill shorten, leader opposition labor party, called men “disgusting” channel seven.“what country coming to, can’t go meal without abused idiots, racist idiots?” added.but one men video, neil erikson, told melbourne radio show thursday mr. dastyari racist — calling “redneck.”“it racial slur white people,” said. “i turned around called terrorist — think it’s fair.”patriot blue also involved protest september melbourne council’s support changing date australia day. indigenous australians critical holiday, celebrated day marks arrival first british settlers 1788.tim soutphommasane, australia’s race discrimination commissioner, said harassment senator raised alarms prevalence thinking australia.“there risk racial abuse harassment normalized public life,” said. “this cannot become new normal society.”
sydney ‘war zone’ became center vietnamese resolve sydney, australia — generation ago, people arriving train cabramatta, western sydney, would exit station find bustling open-air heroin market gangs gunfights turf.“honest god, war zone,” said detective superintendent scott cook, commander new south wales organized crime squad, began policing career cabramatta 1989. “we’d walk street get lunch arrest two people.”now, lunch still draw, though arrests wane. mix aggressive policing, government intervention hard work residents, cabramatta undergone stark transformation lively area renowned destination sydney’s best vietnamese food.the area’s reputation crime arose 1970s, surging drug trade coincided arrival thousands vietnamese migrants refugees. among first nonwhite migrants australia complete abolition white australia policy 1973, many newcomers risked lives harrowing boat trips settling vietnam war.as australia’s offshore detention policy condemned human rights groups, cabramatta shows challenges refugee communities face, also evolve.today signs old cabramatta. busiest thoroughfare, john street, recently opened canary-yellow bubble tea shop sits near cellphone store, joining hip burger joint array sugar-cane juice stalls, fabric markets ethnic grocery stores.“cabramatta always good place me,” said bubble tea shop’s owner, quynh nguyen, 31, came sydney teenager ho chi minh city. “i feel homey here.”a mix fresh ambition familiar come define diverse neighborhood, less 10 percent population traces ancestry australia england. visible places like usual cafe, modern coffee shop near john street baristas denim pull shots background lush plants white tiles.corey nguyen, 28, grew australia owns usual partner, jenny ngo, said wanted introduce cabramatta, dominated traditional cafes selling vietnamese-style coffee, artisanal cafe culture.“for us it’s never competition,” said. “they thing, ours. wish best.”it’s good thing, said andrew nguyen, 24, waited friend coffee traditional vietnamese lunch. “all asian fixes here,” said. “it’s home us.”for many cabramatta’s first vietnamese residents, felt like anything but.before arrival, population mostly working-class australians european migrants. german-austrian society center near train station one remaining signs past.during ’70s, primarily american servicemen brought heroin sydney southeast asia, said andrew jakubowicz, professor sociology university technology sydney. cabramatta, links italian criminal groups new connection southeast asia, would soon become distribution point rest city.for vietnamese, harboring lingering trauma war, lack established asian community cabramatta made “a fairly desperate time,” professor jakubowicz said. “there history structure available respond to, australia still racist.”one former refugees, hue kim, 75, spends weekends selling kaffir lime leaves, rosemary herbs sidewalk feet ms. nguyen’s bubble tea shop.she remembers attending first english class shortly arriving, pregnant, sydney 37 years ago. teachers, said, noticed shirt stained milk. “they told nurse newborn coming back,” said vietnamese. “so didn’t go back.”many vietnamese children came time unaccompanied. others left devices parents worked long hours. isolated culturally economically, young vietnamese arrivals banded together, tapping drug trade preying members community.tony hoang, 35, pastor spent teenage years dealing heroin part gang, recalled time marked instability, anger need belong. “it attractive part group loved other,” said.the violence took shocking turn 1994 assassination john newman, represented cabramatta state parliament. rival local politician immigrated vietnam later convicted crime.it australia’s first political assassination, one would feed notions wave ethnic migrant violence cabramatta.frustration area’s lawless reputation eventually prompted parliamentary inquiry. 2001 report led creation drug treatment intervention programs hiring police officers wider powers tackle drug crimes. today, crime levels compare parts metropolitan sydney.not cabramatta’s problems solved. housing prices, like elsewhere sydney, risen millions dollars.and new wave migrants, including refugees syria middle east, raising kinds tensions confronted vietnamese migrants 1970s.according 2016 census, vietnamese still predominant ethnic group cabramatta, making 33 percent roughly 22,000 residents. chinese make 24 percent, cambodians account 8 percent. least 40 ethnic groups also represented.frank carbone, mayor fairfield city, western sydney district surrounding cabramatta, said 7,000 new refugees resettled region since january 2016, federal government provided financial support.today, though, children initial wave vietnamese migrants seeing return parents’ persistence creating legacy.on quieter stretch john street, patrons lined outside pho tau bay, popular restaurant. inside, chi giang, 36, placid man glasses, worked register waiters ferried bowls steaming broth.born indonesian refugee camp vietnamese parents waiting australian visas, mr. giang manages restaurant, mother began kitchen home 1980. closely guarded beef noodle soup recipe often tops critics’ lists best vietnamese food sydney, profits restaurant enough sustain mr. giang’s entire extended family.“over years, i’ve seen kids coming babies,” mr. giang said, gesturing young family nearby table. “and years later, they’re taller me, they’re still coming beef noodle soup.”
‘the good doctor,’ anti-antihero title abc’s “the good doctor” simple complicated. mostly, show exactly sounds like: hospital melodrama, whiz-bang medical science, dash intra-staff romance shameless sentimentality. it’s competent good, it’s well-versed workings human tear duct.what makes distinctive — possibly made it, debut season, one most-watched shows television — way interrogates word “good.” it, show asks, simply effective?“the good doctor” that, counterintuitively, protagonist whose inability connect emotionally one defining features. dr. shaun murphy (freddie highmore), new surgeon prestigious hospital san jose, calif., autism savant syndrome.earnest distant, shaun often needs simple responses explained him, like parents would sad hear son going lose leg amputation save life.he’s also brilliant surgeon, able make intuitive leaps elude others. (in mold difficult-genius dramas like “sherlock,” “the good doctor” visualizes insights 3-d graphics, like diagram liver explodes segments explain function key vein.) still, skeptical co-workers, like dr. neil melendez (nicholas gonzalez), see liability.“the good doctor” sharp enough leave open possibility might sometimes point. shaun’s inability read cues alienate patients. he’s cogitating diagnosis, goes blank, like computer app spinning-wheel mode, show suspends tension long enough you, like colleagues, wonder something’s gone wrong.the conceit “the good doctor” condition limits shaun’s human interactions inseparable gift. can’t speak accuracy representation autism — neither doctor, play one tv — shaun’s emotional challenge show’s emotional engine.shaun may understand human relations well enough know that, say, shouldn’t wake apartment superintendent midnight. mr. highmore (“bates motel”) makes appealing eager, unintentionally comic candor. (his version reassuring diagnosis: “it’s definitely flesh-eating bacteria!”) root advocate, dr. aaron glassman (richard schiff).“the good doctor” adapted south korean series david shore, creator “house,” different sort difficult protagonist. dr. gregory house (hugh laurie) crusty, arrogant physician sharp-elbowed spirit post-9/11 aughts, figures jack bauer “24” simon cowell “american idol” popularized idea nice guys don’t get job done.on “house,” doctor’s misanthropy much strength liability — suspicion (“everybody lies”) lack sentiment led ingenious diagnoses.in “good doctor” pilot, shaun asks something dismissive superior could aimed tv predecessor. “you’re arrogant,” says. “do think helps good surgeon? hurt person? worth it?”on page, sounds sanctimonious angry, shaun asks curiosity. that’s way. he’s cuddly warm, he’s guileless well intentioned — anti-antihero version gregory house. shaun fellow young doctors learning art dealing frightened patients, getting feel proper dosage tact, honesty, sympathy willingness bend rules.while may different ways good express caring, “the good doctor” suggests, something worth aspiring — idea may especially appeal viewers experienced health care scary, impersonal alienating.elsewhere, “the good doctor” creates emotional investment old-fashioned way: stabbing hypodermic needle straight heart.the manipulative incidental music abundant, heart-wrenching scenarios. bus carrying wedding party crashes one episode; another, meet young boy cancer charming wise that, watched one medical drama life, know he’s long world.we also get series bludgeoningly woeful flashbacks shaun’s childhood — father beats him, brother dies, pet rabbit dies — show thankfully dialed back lately. even mr. schiff, known playing acerbic characters like toby ziegler “the west wing,” cast avuncular guardian teddy bear.but mr. schiff convincing role, mr. highmore striking his. “the good doctor” hardly reinvented syrupy, tear-jerking medical drama. found new way complicate genre’s oldest idea: human connection best medicine.
kenneth macmillan’s school ballet sex, neurosis grit london — 25 years since choreographer kenneth macmillan fatal heart attack backstage royal opera house performance “mayerling,” ballet sex, drugs, madness death. long night, told wife “might another 10 15 years” life successful ballets — “romeo juliet,” “manon,” “mayerling.” chronically anxious self-doubting, macmillan far modest hopes.today, ballets britain’s best-known dance exports, plentiful major ballet company repertories worldwide (25 companies currently perform “manon”), still probably successful 20th-century examples story ballet genre.in adaptations literature history, perpetuated ballet’s tradition lavish spectacle set past age. also effectively reinvented 19th-century narrative ballet audience ready tales passion, drama violence rather involving myths, swans chivalry. — like jerome robbins antony tudor united states — bringer neurosis, psychological drama real-life grit rarefied world ballet.“kenneth macmillan: national celebration,” took place oct. 16 nov. 1 royal opera house, commemorated 25th anniversary choreographer’s death 62. refreshingly, feature blockbuster ballets. instead offered eight one-acts — many seldom staged — chance think macmillan’s reputation legacy away omnipresent long narrative works.the pieces — ranging “baiser de la fée” (1960) “the judas tree,” created months death — performed britain’s five major ballet companies: royal ballet, english national ballet, scottish ballet, birmingham royal ballet northern ballet. (the small yorke dance project also came party, intriguing revival almost unknown 1988 chamber piece, “sea troubles,” inspired shakespeare’s “hamlet.”) collaboration, idea kevin o’hare, director royal ballet, unusual. several companies seldom come london, almost never share stage audience.macmillan, desire rend decorous veil ballet, often seen polar opposite major 20th-century british choreographer, frederick ashton, whose refined, lyrical witty pieces (“la fille mal gardée,” “symphonic variations,” “sylvia”) came define pre-macmillan era british classical dance.“kenneth macmillan dark genius british ballet — destroyer, listen some,” critic ismene brown wrote article celebration spectator magazine.but wasn’t macmillan’s subject matter, could include rape (“the invitation”), incest (“my brother, sisters”) sexual sadism (“mayerling”), bothered critics. also use ballet technique suggest states extreme emotion erotic desire. 1981, piece royal ballet’s 50th-birthday season metropolitan opera house new york, arlene croce wrote danger “pearly classicism” ashtonian style “is new religiose preoccupation human body contortions pronounced macmillan’s ballets.”looking ballets now, physical demands look tame compared athletic requirements many current ballet choreographers. subject matter sometimes brutal, choreographic content mostly firmly classical, though often extended new expressive terrain.in macmillan’s 1965 masterwork, “song earth,” beautifully danced celebration english national ballet, gestures imagery idiosyncratic strange, sometimes alluding chinese t’ang poems used (in german translation) mahler score. women delicately mime picking flowers, turned upside text, sung onstage tenor mezzo-soprano, alludes pavilion reflected water. details vignettes part austere classicism, rather new choreographic language, slowly building evoke poetic specific world.more surprising, less well-known, “concerto,” first work macmillan made took new job artistic director deutsche oper ballet berlin 1966. (he returned england 1969 take directorship royal ballet.)“concerto,” danced celebration birmingham royal ballet, bright, pure exercise ballet classicism, set shostakovich’s piano concerto no. 2, and, among things, it’s brilliant demonstration macmillan’s musicality, aspect work previously considered. music’s jazziness echoed hip-tilted inflections first third sections, marching rhythms reflected, without emphasis, phalanxes moving bodies might refer armies militaristic drill corps de ballet.but it’s second movement, adagio, affecting. here, woman holds man, executing smooth, flowing sequence arcing bends languorous stretches. (macmillan said inspired watching lynn seymour, longtime muse, warm barre.) it’s particularly interesting light current thoughts conventionality male-female partnering ballet; moment man cast nothing support — yet macmillan creates something poetic ambiguous matter-of-fact relationship: thinking eyes meet end?other macmillan pieces feel less important interesting; 1974 “elite syncopations” (performed mix principals different companies) set music scott joplin ragtime composers, insistent perkiness slightly hammy jokes pall, even though choreographically challenging smoothly constructed. “gloria” (well danced northern ballet), created 1980 set poulenc, moving slightly dated feel (this partly costume problem), ballet vocabulary makes much physical tension soaring uplift grounded, earthbound despair.and perhaps difficult ballet macmillan oeuvre, “the judas tree.” set construction site london docklands, features single woman 12 male laborers. woman, seductress victim, raped men, one murdered another commits suicide. biblical allusions jesus, mary, judas perhaps another disciple, story line muddled hard interpret. (who judas, kept wondering.) choreography, however, excellent: inventive, expressionistic, surprising, emotionally compelling. can’t look; can’t look away.it’s impossible ballet like, though, light harvey weinstein revelations repercussions, hard questions become even harder. aesthetic beauty ballet tame make palatable violence see onstage? show us aspects human behavior shy away from, especially opera house? judge subject matter art, different things?these questions ways haunted macmillan’s work early on. 25th anniversary celebration made strong case position major 20th-century artist without providing neat answers.
‘saturday night live,’ shortage targets, including louis c.k. roy moore growing number accounts sexual misconduct prominent men gave “saturday night live” plenty topical grist week. accused came tougher treatment others.in episode, hosted “girls trip” star tiffany haddish featuring musical guest taylor swift, plenty haymakers thrown roy s. moore, embattled republican senate nominee alabama, accused improper sexual romantic conduct teenagers.but show took couple shots comedian louis c.k., hosted “s.n.l.” several times recently last april, week admitted masturbating front several women.a scattershot cold-opening sketch theme sexual misconduct least awkward appearances alec baldwin president trump. instead featured “s.n.l.” cast members mikey day mr. moore beck bennett vice president mike pence, trying convince drop alabama senate race.“i don’t tell senate hangs balance,” mr. bennett told mr. day. “we’re trying pass tax-reform plan year bring mr. trump’s list big legislative accomplishments one. can’t lose seat december. know you’re bannon’s guy latest news concerning. voters alabama never elect someone who’s relations minor.”mr. day asked, “you sure that?”mr. bennett answered, “no. alabama quite place. can’t take chances.”mr. day protested, “the left-wing media loves repeat sexual harassment stories. there’s new one every day, mike.”mr. bennett replied. “i know. even heard louis c.k. i’m allowed watch tv, i’m allowed listen it.”kate mckinnon emerged cabinet role attorney general jeff sessions, ran mr. moore’s recent behavior: waving gun onstage, proclaiming muslims shouldn’t allowed hold office congress 9-11 god’s punishment sodomy.“i love it,” ms. mckinnon said. “you check lot boxes me, roy, really bad. i’m usually creepiest one room, look i’m like, oh god.”the sketch ended ms. mckinnon delivering soliloquy stuffed possum called papa.she said, “there’s many men there, acting like monsters. mr. weinstein, kevin spacey, president. daddy, happening forever? fostered benefited culture systemic oppression? no? well, that’s relief.”ms. haddish, first black female comedian host “saturday night live,” talked monologue she’d grown foster care considered “s.n.l.” favorite show. “you idea difficult get group black hispanic kids watch ‘s.n.l.’ ‘in living color,’” said.taking topic sexual harassment, ms. haddish offered advice male viewers.“fellas, got tip y’all,” said. “i like call tiffany’s tip. it’s tiff tip. listen, fellas, listen, o.k.? got thing-thing out, got clothes on, you’re wrong. you’re wrong. wait till takes clothes off, pull thing-thing out, o.k.?”the topic sexual misconduct resurfaced pair riffs “weekend update” co-anchors colin jost michael che.mr. jost began saying, “well, it’s good weekend stay inside, since it’s 20 degrees out, everyone you’ve ever heard sex monster.” (at moment, screen showed pictures louis c.k., mr. spacey, harvey weinstein mr. moore.)mr. jost continued:(here screen showed another picture louis c.k.)in run jokes, mr. che said, “alabama state auditor jim zeigler defended roy moore using mary joseph examples, saying, ‘mary teenager joseph adult carpenter. became parents jesus.’ oh, word? that’s you’re going with? roy moore trying make jesus? oh, o.k. guess r. kelly trying make rain 40 days 40 nights.”in desk-side character piece “weekend update,” cecily strong played claire, especially harried member nbc’s human resources department, attempted educate mr. jost company’s sexual harassment policy.administering quiz mr. jost, ms. strong asked, “what appropriate way handle workplace relationship: a) inform someone h.r.; b) lock room make look it; c) bully entire industry?”when mr. jost correctly answered a, ms. strong replied, “you’d surprised many people get wrong. could make lose damn mind,” cackled good measure.she also held doll dressed suit asked mr. jost, “when talking co-worker office, keep penis?” (“just point doll penis be,” explained. “no wrong answers here, super wrong answers.”)ms. strong told mr. jost passed warned, “i’m sure i’ll back next week week that, forever ever,” said. “because isn’t scandal. didn’t start last week. it’s actual reality half population.” took swig hand sanitizer, glanced phone exclaimed, “george takei, no!”a sketch guise advertisement democratic national committee featured several “s.n.l.” cast members couple beloved alumni playing prominent democrats celebrating party’s electoral successes week. tone set alex moffat, playing senator charles schumer new york, declared, “we haven’t felt confident since day trump won.”the sketch also featured ms. strong senator dianne feinstein california ms. mckinnon representative nancy pelosi, house minority leader. “together, we’re going end spirit divisiveness country focusing governor’s races two 10 states care about,” ms. strong said.ms. mckinnon said, “and learned lesson last election: can’t appeal coastal elites. need mouth-breathers wisconsin.” ms. strong added, “and window-lickers ohio well.”larry david, hosted “saturday night live” last weekend, reprised recurring role senator bernie sanders making reference controversial “s.n.l.” monologue. “we’re really going lace people don’t say what’s politically correct,” mr. david said. “like comics think it’s o.k. make jokes concentration camps. guy rot hell.”ms. mckinnon played second character sketch, returning hillary clinton. “another chance me, hillary rodham clinton,” said. “just one chance. maybe one chance that.”playing role donna brazile, longtime democratic party official, leslie jones responded, “i thought dead.”
christians must support gun control sutherland springs, tex. — rural texas, hay, baled rolled, waits winter. corn shorn stiff yucca stands guard dusk. know country; short drive home, past places like devil’s backbone purgatory skinny cibolo creek, choked mesquite live oak. sutherland springs, family five trudges front headlights, past police cordon, shuffling, heads down, apparently headed home. call god’s country, partly beauty, partly sometimes feels like god thing here.as many small texas towns, center sutherland springs church. anything stands worst mass murder history texas, took place last sunday, killing 26 wounding least 20, this: simple, white wooden sanctuary peaked roof, next unkempt field lonesome two-lane road.now going tear down, bulldozing south texas plain, could remove sacrilege killing defenseless people sunday sermon. america’s response mass homicide come to. don’t remove killing machines put tens thousands americans graves hospital beds century, demolish first baptist church stood lonely crossroad nearly century. doomed site, rooted black soil, cries people faith act.the killer, devin patrick kelley, used ruger ar-556, 15 30-round magazines, shoot nearly 50 helpless, trapped people. weapon variant ar-15, barely distinguishable m-16, american military’s standard-issue infantry weapon. these, along handguns, weapons choice today’s mass killers.i won’t pretend religious next person, afraid call christian. like lot americans, complicated relationship faith. shouldn’t lessen sense moral obligation face blithely call new normal. fall siren call guns, unproven good-guy-with-a-gun myth, something many fellow texans indulged past days. instead, duty confront machines profiteering behind them.it easy feel numb, powerless hopeless. dead, one grimace last moment fear. survivors beloved, harsh sentence awaits. first, trauma, like amputation, something c. s. lewis wrote death wife, joy davidman, 1960. “no one ever told grief felt like fear. afraid, sensation like afraid,” lewis, catholic, wrote slender tortured memoir “a grief observed.” “the fluttering stomach, restlessness, yawning. keep swallowing.”when traumatic death strikes, common question is, “why?” second common question invariably, “where god?” last troubling is, “what god want?” cry jesus let cross darkness spread across land: “my god, god, forsaken me?”i won’t pretend know mind god, offer simple guess would say: stop killing. course killing never end, completely; imperfect creatures free will, prone sin — absence good — well beauty. categorically different allowing proliferation machines solely designed kill large numbers people quickly, machines bear semblance rifle nuclear weapon firework. sin omission — nothing — nearly bad murder itself.in recent years, time time, ar-15 one close cousins played starring role american mass shooting. las vegas shared macabre double-billing semiautomatic version russian ak-47. chattanooga. orlando. san bernardino. aurora. two like nearly always there.and reason. weapons’ quasi-military design, even unskilled hand pull trigger 40 times minute. typical hunting rifle hold several rounds. typical ar-15 magazine holds 30. least five million ar-15-type weapons nation alone. sturm, ruger & company, connecticut company made weapon used here, reported $664 million net sales last year.here texas, politicians come gone, visiting sutherland springs raw, rainy wednesday night, making empty calls prayers excuses inaction, vice president mike pence awkwardly intoned, “words fail saints heroes fall.” indeed, do. words, bereft real meaning, blow away cold north wind. appears forget purportedly deep religiosity.christianity demands action. insists protection innocent. 13th century, st. thomas aquinas justified war self-defense, also opposed killing innocent civilians. “aquinas holds causing death innocents foreseeable manner, whether intentionally indirectly,” according cambridge divinity scholar daniel h. weiss, “is never justified.”and yet christian evangelicals, particularly white southern baptists, generally parted ways catholics gun laws. simply politically opposed gun control republicans; others understandably distrust society seem embrace god. opposition crumbling. six 10 evangelical leaders report living household gun, nearly many, 55 percent, favor stricter gun laws, according august survey national association evangelicals.“they accept second amendment,” said leith anderson, president national association evangelicals survey results released. “also deeply grieve weapons used take innocent lives.”the true texas. though 37.5 percent texans guns, according estimate pew research center, tiny fissures opened state’s conservative political culture since massacre here. jason villalba dallas, prominent republican state legislator, called state’s political leadership appoint bipartisan commission “focus possible causes gun violence texas.”at first, might sound like political dodge, mr. villalba wants new gun restrictions table: “there needs common-sense gun control reform texas.” dallas morning news, state’s largest newspaper, quickly endorsed plan: “our goals ought simple. deadly kind weapons harder get.”all people abrahamic faiths share duty — protect innocent. jewish bystander rescue person peril. islam requires protection innocent lives. fear fail this, bulldoze churches let machines war profit win faith, god never forgive us. would worst sin all.
children friends white people? oldest son, wrestling 4-year-old’s happy struggles, trying clarify many people best friend. “my best friends mama brother …” even child’s joy immune ominous political period. summer’s images violence charlottesville, va., prompted array questions. “some people hate others different,” offer, lamely. childish distinct panic enters voice. “but i’m different.”it impossible convey mixture heartbreak fear feel him. donald trump’s election made clear teach boys lesson generations old, one part nearly escaped. teach cautious, teach suspicion, teach distrust. much sooner thought would, discuss boys whether truly friends white people.meaningful friendship feeling. simply able share beer. real friendship impossible without ability trust others, without knowing well-being important them. desire create, maintain wield power others destroys possibility friendship. rev. dr. martin luther king jr.’s famous dream black white children holding hands dream precisely realized alabama, conditions dominance made real friendship white black people impossible.history provided little reason people color trust white people way, recent months put starkest relief contempt country measures value racial minorities. america transfixed opioid epidemic among white americans (who often get hooked overprescribed painkillers — studies show doctors underprescribe pain medication african-americans). black lives struck addiction, cordoned minority communities police threw away entire generation black hispanic men.likewise, despite centuries exclusion robust evidence continuing racism, minority underemployment often couched language bad choices personal responsibility. systemic joblessness strikes swaths white america, get entire presidential campaign centered globalization’s impact white working class. even nerve rich visible african-americans protest america, laws police, rarely met howls president cannot tolerate lucky uppity stay place.as gauzy national hopes, teach boys profound doubts friendship white people possible. ask, teach sons beautiful hue fault line. spare platitudes inside. first keep boys safe, teach world shows particular brand rending, violent, often fatal betrayal.let assure heartbreak dwarfs anger. grew classic midwestern college town. american faults, diverse happy-childhood kind place, slightly dull way parents wish children. race showed class lines, school cliques pulled often, little americana lacked deep racial tension mistrust seem hard escape now.what’s surprising heartbroken all. african-americans grew place watching mr. trump disorienting. many weary minorities, ridiculous thing thinking friendship possible first place. hurts believed friendship could bridge racial gorge.of course, rise president broken bonds sides. people color stakes different. imagining friends across political line asking us ignore safety children, abandon personal regard self-worth. white people cordon mr. trump’s political meaning, ignore “unpleasantness” position safety. election year followed fixed awful thought mind familiar black americans: “you can’t trust people.”it mr. trump done this. reverence money, mr. trump would easily recognized simple-minded, vulgar, bigoted blowhard is. certainly neo-nazis marching charlottesville; seen type before. rather, truly broken heart ranks mr. trump’s many allies apologists.mr. trump’s supporters practiced purposeful blindness. political life started denying, without evidence, barack obama american — black man could truly legitimate president — simply ignored. so, too, history housing discrimination, casual conflation muslims terrorists, reducing mexican-americans murderers rapists. along, allies watched racial pornography, describing black america pathological. yet deny malice whatsoever words actions. dismiss attempt recognize danger wide-ranging animus political correctness.but deepest rift apologists, “good” trump voters, white people understand mr. trump says “unfortunate” things support like says jobs taxes. bristle accusation supported racism, insisting ignore mr. trump’s ugliness. relying everyday decency shield, befuddled chill separates black people offices social circles. protest: ever said anything racist? don’t shovel sidewalk new black neighbors? surely, say, politics — single vote — mean can’t friends.i write liberal condescension glee. heart unbearably heavy assure cannot friends.the true, unfortunately, hold quarter mr. trump insist black people need reaching out, moderating, accommodating. imagine white friend civil rights era disliked blacks’ beaten death wished whole thing would settle down. however likable, could properly describe friend. sometimes politics makes demands soul.don’t misunderstand: white trump supporters people color like one another. real friendship? mr. trump’s bruised ego invents outrageous claims voter fraud, caring rhetoric built upon dogs water hoses set black children even today relentless effort silence black voices. macho talk “law order” keep communities safe threatens bodies little boys love. amount shoveled snow makes right, many imagine ways. desperation reap rewards white power without much indicted james baldwin recognized america’s criminal innocence.for african-americans, race become proxy politics also decency. white faces swept together, ominous anxiety behind every chance encounter airport smiling white cashier. clearly allies, seem unsafe me.barack obama’s farewell address encouraged us reach across partisan lines. difference disagreeing taxes negotiating one’s place america, bodies children, humanity. racial wound undone love families, ignoring depths gash cause heal.we still pretend friends. meaningful civic friendship impossible, make mere civility — sharing drinks watching game. indeed, even donald trump’s america, given friends white people. bi-ethnic wife, trusted friend, understands seen white woman, even though brother father not. among dearest friends, wedding party children’s godparents variety, many white. friends marched protest, rushed airports protest president’s travel ban, people shared risks required strength decency.there hope, though. implicitly, without meaning to, mr. trump asks us best do. falls us better. cannot agree politics, declare stand beside one another cheap attack devaluation; live together simply beside one another. coming years, boys ask questions best friend, pray hopeful answer.
jesus’ parents roy moore’s gall books subject wider interpretation bible, still illuminated moral jim zeigler, state auditor alabama, drew story two weary travelers found room inn. it’s apparently plug child molestation.when zeigler asked washington examiner allegation senate candidate roy moore initiated sexual contact 14-year-old girl 32, zeigler cited biblical couple say, essentially: biggie! old christianity.“take joseph mary,” explained. “mary teenager joseph adult carpenter. became parents jesus. there’s nothing immoral illegal here. maybe little bit unusual.” made sound moore religiously inclined analogue military-history enthusiasts dress uniforms yesteryear travel back revolutionary war. moore merely re-enacting new testament name lust.it’s worth pointing something illegal here: 14-year-old girl age consent alabama, true well four decades ago, incident alleged occurred. it’s also worth pointing jesus supposedly arrived via virgin birth, joseph’s interactions mary point may considerably g-rated gallant zeigler’s version.it’s worth pointing millenniums ago, girls treated chattel sold child brides, practice one right mind would regard inspirational cite exonerating precedent.but fine points tend elude people insisting convenient, self-serving narrative available, zeigler rationalizing sustained support moore. besides, logic moral consistency aren’t prevalent among bible-thumping scolds.moore vehemently denied allegation, detailed washington post article thursday reported written meticulously. part made persuasive girl — woman — spoke record repeatedly voted republicans, including donald trump. she’s putting name accusation risking harassment could come that, she’s easily cast pawn democrats trying buoy moore’s opponent, doug jones.also persuasive: she’s alone. three women — also named — told post moore 30s ages 16 18, dated tried date them. one claimed plied alcohol old enough drink legally. none three accused unwanted sexual contact, accounts support idea moore untroubled age gaps would trouble better man considerably.are really surprised? so, might want see doctor amnesia, memory pretty spotty still recall jimmy swaggart jim bakker larry craig david vitter, minutes googling, could fill rest column names pastors politicians presented steadfast moral conservatives revealed agents precisely kind behavior exuberantly condemned. frauds hypocrites legion lepers days jesus.if sound bitter, am, long among principal purveyors hatred gay people like me. they’re big reason many us grew terrified we’d ostracized, wondering something twisted us confronted laws treated us second-class citizens. supposedly moral error, thus deserved lesser lot.second class actually much higher category one moore would corral us. 2002 called sexual relations people gender “an act heinous defies one’s ability describe it.” trust this: it’s terribly difficult describe. i’ll walk chicken salad sandwich times cafeteria. treat.in 2005 said sex somebody gender akin sex cow, horse dog, sex cow, horse, dog person gender “a moral precept upon country founded.” recall bestiality clause constitution, but, mentioned, memory spotty.in 2016 moore expelled chief justice alabama supreme court instructed state’s judges defy united states supreme court ruling legalized same-sex marriage. second time moore yanked job; he’d previously ignored federal court’s ruling ten commandments monument removed alabama judicial building. patriot is. particular take chosen religion overrides law land permits act sees fit. imagine americans adopted attitude.and decidedly personal take, picks chooses outraged by. although christianity understand doesn’t smile florid lying, womanizing, hypersexual vocabulary assorted cruelties prominent threads donald trump’s life, moore many evangelical christians spared trump censure. understand motivation vote him: abortion. didn’t compel remain mum misdeeds summon adoration did. (i’m looking you, jerry falwell jr.)on thursday, moore tweeted “the forces evil lie, cheat, steal — even inflict physical harm — believe silence shut christian conservatives like me.” war waged kind? war breed conservatives waging rest us? arrogant without empathy, generals use cause camouflage.they also read bible selectively, zeigler demonstrated point parody. joseph mary evangelists transgenerational love? buy that, allow invention three wise men.
swine conservatism lately given extended education different varieties liberal pigs. there’s industrial-scale predator buys indulgences planned parenthood. male feminist respects women much — especially they’re drunk resist him. great man letters creeping co-workers. let-it-all-hang-out artist thinks can’t assault person you’re touching yourself.but week era exposure reminded us cultural conservatism distinctive swine.so wait see becomes alabama senate candidate professional christian roy moore, credibly alleged spent thirties pursuing high school girls “i get older, stay age” gusto matthew mcconaughey’s character “dazed confused,” it’s worth quick typology predators flourish among godly moralistic traditional.one type might call rotten patriarch. man depends trappings spiritual familial authority exploit young weak, shame silence, pre-emptively discredit them.the rotten patriarch might anyone handsy pastor lecherous pillar community leader sect religious order. defenses moore various alabama republicans see way conservative impulses protect kind figure — suggestion man religious reputation trusted accusers, risible invocation biblical examples defend older man’s lust 14-year-old girl.but styles predation flourish within conservative communities. instance, burrower, networker, institutionalist — predator embeds within hierarchical system protects wants protect itself.many catholic priest-abusers fit pattern. clerical authority didn’t always keep getting chased parishes. networked predators helped skate next assignment, larger ecclesiastical entity saw self-protection important punishment.then finally serial repenter — creep relies promise forgiveness keep place powers opportunities prey again.here, too, biblical precedents often invoked predator’s defense. didn’t king david sleep around? doesn’t every saint past, every sinner future? good christian wisdom — except sinners want future return old awful sins.all predatory categories overlap, course, also overlap way predators operate liberal circles. harvey weinstein ran miramax way abusive religious leader rules cult. bill clinton liberal pig backing feminist causes buy immunity serial repenter style baptist youth. liberal academic eminence grooming disciples victims lot common man god same.but still enough that’s unique conservative styles predation draw lessons tradition-oriented cultures communities.one lesson social order vests particular forms power men needs more, less, hold male species accountable.some cultural conservatives, evangelical christianity especially, combine belief male headship churches families “boys boys girls shouldn’t tempt them” attitude toward sex. it’s combination that’s self-contradictory deeply toxic, handing men power permission slip abuse — which, predictably, do.another lesson impulse hide dismiss scandal hurts short-term cause, common institutions particularly strong conservative ones, path self-destruction long run.again, catholic church’s sex abuse experience case study. may watching something similar happen evangelicals, decided donald trump may decide roy moore war secular liberalism, simply can’t afford police morals leaders.it’s theory makes sense think today’s elections, long term it’s cultural suicide — tells neighbors children religious convictions always secondary partisanship.“for nothing hidden made manifest, anything secret known come light.” words apply everywhere now, hollywood pagans alabama christians alike.but christians particular reasons meditate upon — consider don’t apply sexual predations, worldly impulses make otherwise decent people defenders indefensible.
god sue roy moore decades, one sanctimonious moralizers american politics roy moore, longtime bible-thumper alabama crusaded gays, transgender people, islam “sexual perversion.”moore suggested year 9/11 terror attacks god’s punishment “we legitimize sodomy.” said homosexuality “the thing” sex cow criminalized, argued representative keith ellison allowed serve congress muslim.all while, moore seems king hypocrisy. washington post published devastating account initiated sexual encounter 14-year-old schoolgirl.the victim said moore, 32-year-old assistant district attorney, drove girl house, removed clothes touched sexually. alabama law, apparently constitutes sexual abuse second degree. want example politician lost support arrested less egregious behavior, consider anthony weiner, former democratic member congress, prison sexting 15-year-old girl.the post found three women said moore pursued 30s teenagers. women contact post initially reluctant speak.moore denies accusations “completely false” — promptly tried use fund-raising. reaction moore spent less time thundering ten commandments time reading them.this course larger pattern american life. one reader put facebook page: “those moralize most, sin most.”that’s always true, sanctimonious hypocrites inhabit left well right: harvey weinstein participated “women’s march.” we’re watershed moment aftermath weinstein case, trying end impunity sexual assault, allegations leaders even serious entertainers. and, frankly, it’s staggering see “family values” conservatives making excuses child molestation.the alabama state auditor, republican named jim ziegler, defended moore “clean hound’s tooth” offered bizarre defense child abuse: asserted virgin mary teenager joseph married (in fact, bible indicate age), adding: “they became parents jesus.”sigh. christians cite bible defend child molestation, jesus sue defamation.meanwhile, alabama republican legislator, ed henry, went even further: said women accusing moore prosecuted waiting make allegations.looking back, grossest immorality late 20th century nothing gay bath houses, preachers sometimes suggested, rather blowhard televangelists suggested aids god’s punishment gay men. smirking moralizing slowed response aids arguably resulted millions dying unnecessarily world.in columns, i’ve repeatedly defended evangelical christians, protested one groups it’s socially acceptable liberals mock, stereotype discriminate against. liberals still haven’t forgiven “hug evangelical” column 13 years ago. find infuriating see evangelicals downplaying child molestation president’s boasts sexual assault.we make compromises — supported bill clinton 1992 george h.w. bush, thought personally moral — doesn’t require downplaying inexcusable. used complain conservatives believe morality personal behavior, liberals believe policy positions, actually it’s both. sadly, “family values” conservatives don’t seem care either private public morality.if evangelical christians want engage activism, needn’t support hypocrites bigots; support lifesaving organizations like world vision african mission healthcare foundation, fight human trafficking supporting international justice mission, reduce abortions backing national campaign prevent teen unplanned pregnancy.as happened, revelations moore became public, visited leaders inspiring tri-faith project omaha, church, synagogue mosque partnering shared site build empathy understanding. asked pastor involved, rev. eric elnes, reaction moore.“blazing self-righteous indignation toward others often people use hide sins shadows,” elnes said. “this probably jesus’ biggest problem — far — self-righteous. came society cast away ‘sinners,’ jesus repeatedly gentle, gracious, encouraging, forgiving, continually castigated self-righteous.”elnes added: “i’ve never understood certain christians eager turn united states christian country time would much better spent turning churches christian churches.”roy moore today challenge see good decent people faith: find excusing child molestation, driven morality faith, simply emptiest kind tribalism.
worrisome future abortion rights sheriff joe arpaio used require pregnant inmates arizona jails controlled get court order allowed cells obtain desired abortion. needless say, sued, needless say, lost. (the sheriff appealed supreme court, refused hear case.) switched tactics require inmate wanted abortion prepay transportation security costs, something required off-site medical procedure. american civil liberties union took sheriff back court again.that seemed that. following president trump’s pardon mr. arpaio three months ago unrelated contempt court conviction, 85-year-old former sheriff, right-wing hero years abusing immigrants, seemed finally fade scene.but guess what? turns we’re living sheriff joe country now.i’m referring deeply disturbing events past weeks trump administration pulled stops keep pregnant 17-year-old, “unaccompanied minor” federal custody undocumented immigrant, exercising constitutional right abortion. administration persisted even texas judge ruled september girl sufficiently mature make decision pregnancy. known court papers jane doe, finally got abortion oct. 25, thanks 6-to-3 ruling federal appeals court washington, d.c. abortion came weeks delay, jane doe forced attend counseling session anti-abortion “crisis pregnancy center” pregnancy approaching 20-week limit legal abortion texas. teenager held texas shelter run private contractor department health human services.refusing give even jane doe’s abortion, solicitor general noel j. francisco wants make sure trump administration deter pregnant teenagers federal custody terminating pregnancies. last week, filed wildly improbable supreme court appeal, asking justices vacate moot appeals court’s decision and, they’re it, impose sanctions jane doe’s a.c.l.u. attorneys getting client abortion trump administration could run supreme court emergency appeal. that’s bizarre complaint; even three dissenting appeals court judges, opinion judge brett kavanaugh, wrote “the majority’s order today necessarily means government must allow immediate abortion jane doe remains government custody.” (the mootness claim shaky: jane doe filed lawsuit class action, also claims damages still pending officials blocked path.)i gather decision go supreme court extremely controversial within solicitor general’s office, staffed almost entirely lawyers career civil servants serve one administration next, sometimes decades. single career lawyer signed solicitor general’s supreme court petition, sure indication something isn’t right office. recent trickle resignations becomes flood, assume talented lawyers left prestigious positions hadn’t signed work becoming justice department outpost national right life committee.even supreme court ignores administration’s appeal, one cares rule law assume story happy ending. far it. see ending, beginning. see future abortion america.what mean this: briefs motions solicitor general francisco filed case known hargan v. garza (eric d. hargan acting secretary health human services, rochelle garza jane doe’s court-appointed representative purposes case) breathtakingly audacious. political appointees wrote documents describe law abortion today (although that’s purport describing) wish tomorrow — whenever justice anthony m. kennedy decides retire thus creates crucial vacancy president trump fill.for example, appeal filed last week contains sentences:“under court’s case law, government may adopt policies favoring life abortion; obligated facilitate abortion; government acts permissibly place undue burden woman’s path. here, government imposed undue burden: ms. doe contended government’s actions custodian obstructing access abortion violation fifth amendment, could left government custody seeking voluntary departure, working government identify suitable sponsor could take custody united states. given options, government obligation facilitate ms. doe’s abortion.”several aspects passage stand out. citation pointing reader part supreme court’s case law validates administration’s position. that’s surprising, account partial point misleading. presumably, reference supreme court’s 1992 decision planned parenthood v. casey, adopted “undue burden” standard evaluating constitutionality restrictions abortion. court said “substantial obstacle” placed path woman seeking terminate pregnancy fetal viability creates “undue burden” constitutional right.the casey decision indeed say government interest unborn life beginning pregnancy adopt policies allow express interest, including seeking persuade woman change mind carry pregnancy term. crucially, casey decision held government endeavor persuade woman choose childbirth abortion, end day may prevent choosing otherwise. distinction persuade prevent central understanding current abortion law, reva siegel argued length law review article published last year.the casey decision remains law land, supreme court made clear last year struck down, undue burden, medically unnecessary regulations would closed abortion clinics texas. justice kennedy joined justice stephen g. breyer’s majority opinion case, whole woman’s health v. hellerstedt.the solicitor general argues administration preventing jane doe getting abortion, choose go back came from. that’s ridiculous. first, abortion legal jane doe’s unspecified home country. second, claims fled abusive home. know, pregnancy result incest; event, asked officials tell parents pregnant, ignored pleas told anyway. finally, judge patricia millett wrote dissent appeals court’s earlier 2-to-1 decision temporarily blocked abortion, “the government cannot condition exercise constitutional right women girls surrender legal rights. fact j.d. entered united states without proper documentation mean legal right stay safe abuse persecution.”it’s known months president trump — or, likely, vice president mike pence — filled top positions department health human services individuals devoted adult lifetimes anti-abortion cause. scott lloyd, man charge jane doe’s fate federal courts stepped in, many people’s screens low-profile position head department’s office refugee resettlement, agency jurisdiction unaccompanied minors caught entering country illegally.mr. lloyd, like many others public payroll, longtime anti-abortion crusader. asserts power review abortion decision detained minor. jane doe’s lawyers submitted court exhibit email mr. lloyd regarding obligations contractors (“grantees”) house minors. headed: “grantees supporting abortion services pre post-release; pregnancy services life-affirming options counseling.”mr. lloyd bases role, completely new one director office, policy adopted office refugee resettlement march prohibits “any action facilitates” abortion without “direction approval director.” prohibited actions include giving minor access abortion itself, also taking preliminary doctors’ appointments court get judicial permission lieu permission faraway parents.the choice word “facilitates” document casual. appears throughout administration’s briefs case. “this court repeatedly made clear government generally need facilitate abortions,” solicitor general writes supreme court appeal. among precedents cited “need facilitate” rule holding government need pay abortions women can’t afford one. far cry jane doe’s situation. never question government paying; cost abortion borne private fund.the administration put forward broad view means “need facilitate” sought stay first judicial order case, decision judge tanya chutkan federal district court washington, administration permit abortion. seeking immediate review order, administration claimed “the government’s refusal facilitate ms. doe obtaining abortion places obstacle path, much less significant one, required constitute undue burden. government merely refusing exercise custodial responsibilities unaccompanied minors taking affirmative steps proactively assist enable endeavor, consistent legitimate interest promoting fetal life childbirth abortion.”that says all. administration can’t stop adult women abortions. can’t even stop teenagers, often parents’ permission or, failing that, required permission judge. administration unleashes anti-abortion fury vulnerable among us, unaccompanied minors, pregnant alone, gumption desperation flee something even worse. suppose jane doe able get abortion time. would soon giving birth united states citizen. what? administration doesn’t say.what mean “facilitate” abortion? seems boil paperwork: according one administration’s briefs, government “would evaluate sign approval documents procedure; arrange transportation procedure transfer custody someone would authorized take her; monitor health care procedure.” presumably, government would make arrangements joyously “procedure” issue childbirth. comes abortion, signing forms onerous; also would make government complicit, eyes, something believes grave wrong.there another recent case signing form said create complicity. 2016 case religious employers challenged affordable care act’s requirement free contraception part employer’s health plan. noel j. francisco, solicitor general, argued case, zubik v. burwell, requirement behalf several clients, including roman catholic archbishop washington organization called priests life. (the best-known plaintiff case, little sisters poor, religious order runs network nursing homes, represented another lawyer.) religiously affiliated organizations sought total exemption mandate obama administration gave actual churches. question case became whether accommodation would satisfy religious groups’ demand still permit female employees obtain birth control terms american women. end, groups’ answer no; even signing form opt entire program step far. (the trump administration ended litigation offering exemptions employers religious plain “moral” objections birth control.)claims private parties following laws believe would make complicit evil bold, contraception case, though hardly unprecedented. argument government making something novel, symptom world turned upside down. government claiming right “facilitate” lawful procedure, made complicit politicians federal bureaucrats regard evil. government claiming right follow law. concept head-spinning.but throw stones? aren’t complicit fashion? people streets protest treatment rosa maria hernandez, 10-year-old cerebral palsy stopped checkpoint immigration agents way emergency surgery. learned undocumented status, agents followed ambulance waited outside hospital room couldn’t somehow escape clutches. happened another country, would politicians soapboxes talking human dignity. maybe, since last november, become another country: sheriff joe arpaio territory, rules designed satisfy little sisters poor.when senator jeff flake, arizona republican, gave retirement speech senate floor last month, declaring “i complicit” described country’s loss moral authority, posed question: “when next generation asks us, didn’t something? didn’t speak up? going say?” question lingered air. still does.
female comic louis c.k.’s world saw louis c.k. spring, performing upright citizens brigade theater new york city. working “saturday night live” monologue funny. exchanged cordial hellos backstage remember thinking, “i hope it’s misunderstanding, hope you’re guy people say are.”standup comedy hard women. started 1987 san francisco. since then, i’ve worked mostly male comics, male club owners. i’ve wiggled thousands uncomfortable hugs let cheek catch kiss meant lips. don’t story misconduct louis c.k. like ones five women recently told reporters (which admitted true), one masturbated front me, least without consent. i’d say almost every female comic could name comedy club can’t walk into, booker can’t email agent can’t pursue presence problematic guy. avoiding someone could help us make money.female comics lot calculating, finding alternate routes career.“i won’t try get spot club tonight — he’s there.”“i won’t perform club ever — runs it.”“i won’t get tv show — books it.”for me, “i won’ts” look like lifetime “i didn’ts.” many missed opportunities. truth is, woman professions, bunch extra rungs ladder success.my workplace, comedy club, unlike other. group strangers brought me. sit feet listen talk. things say made up, me. skeptical make laugh, find you, get you.if interrupted workplace (almost always man), encouraged insult him, spot. mock clothing speculate abilities bedroom. tell girlfriend better. smack down, like insect. instead losing job, like woman flipped president trump, get applauded. cheered. even better, man persists interrupting me, signal bouncer kicked out.yes. rude man removed workplace. wonder hope hicks, white house communications director, might want power. wouldn’t woman?but moment female comic steps offstage, power dissipates. woman, again. famous comic masturbate front powerful manager tell stop complaining it. standup comedy, contrast two states depressingly clear. get person onstage wish offstage.there’s hulu documentary called “too funny fail,” dana carvey’s sketch show abc. louis c.k. head writer, guy presumably hiring. started watching it, course noticed writers show men. great — dud bunch. couple great female writers didn’t even try get job show they’d heard weird stuff guy hiring? women still business?i wonder there’s parallel universe born male became comic. rich universe? headline stadiums? wife taking care son focus exclusively career? better networking men i’m worried sending wrong message? hang show drinks know help get work?all new comics need thing: huge amounts stage time. shortcuts standup comedy. quest become good comedian brutal. takes least 10 years performing, almost every night. get performing time open mics, line day spot night, open mics run 1 2 a.m., shows talk two, 10, friends coming chance perform.both male female comics things. also maneuver around problematic guy, you’ll miss opportunities. perform 10 times week male counterpart performs 12 times week, get better faster. won’t get paid work you’re good, quest take longer.often part predominantly male lineup, watch women crowd. third fourth man row, look tired. see thinking, “another one?”when female comic takes stage night, often palpable joy women audience. minutes, don’t look world male eyes. it’s relief, end dude fatigue. never understood male comics put all-male mostly male lineups, aren’t demanding follow female comic. audience much excited you’re sixth man row.after allegations louis c.k. made public record, friend texted names two famous male standup comics heard “next.” strange see sexual harassment taken seriously, long last. made examine life, 30 years swimming under, around sharks. could accomplished i’d able put energy elsewhere?i don’t know men going change themselves. know putting women onstage, writing staffs camera great way change comedy.
last time president xi took question american correspondent? 2014, yup, beijing — president trump president xi jinping turned away flower-draped lecterns thursday without taking questions reporters, sense missed opportunity spread cavernous room great hall people.american presidents typically use visits persuade inaccessible, often autocratic, foreign leaders face news media. beneficiary custom 2014, mr. xi stood next president barack obama building, grudgingly agreed take two questions — one chinese one american correspondent.mr. obama’s aides haggled weeks chinese officials extract agreement. driven, part, mr. obama come sharp criticism 2009, first visit, chinese allow questions appearance mr. xi’s predecessor, hu jintao. (journalists able ask questions visits presidents bill clinton george w. bush.)and so, nov. 12, 2014, preparing join colleagues bus ride hotel great hall people, pulled aside eric h. schultz, mr. obama’s deputy press secretary, told expect called news conference.the white house’s choice new york times laden symbolism. time, chinese government declined renew visas several times correspondents china reprisal coverage financial dealings chinese leaders families.asking questions president nerve-racking circumstances. heard name called press secretary, josh earnest, great hall, felt like stepping plate yankee stadium.i stood and, camera bulbs flashing, asked mr. xi two questions: view mr. obama’s asia pivot threat china? would china ease refusal give visas correspondents light broader visa agreement signed united states?i also asked mr. obama somewhat long-winded question rise anti-american sentiment china, prompted say, “come on, mark,” joke, finished, forgotten question (i assumed benefit host).at first, president xi looked going simply ignore impudent foreigner. instructed moderator move on, taking scripted question chinese state-owned paper. mr. obama, clearly eager hear mr. xi’s answer, shot glance theatrical shrug, presidential equivalent “nice try, buddy.”it turned mr. xi merely biding time. answered chinese journalist, circled back delivered curt lecture. no, said, pivot containment. visa problems times making.china protected freedom expression, said, “media outlets need obey china’s laws regulations. car breaks road, perhaps need get car see problem lies. certain issue raised problem, must reason.”“in chinese, saying,” concluded. “the party created problem one help resolve it.”as white house press corps filed room, one colleagues joked hoped chinese would allow leave country. chinese media reported violated ground rules directing question mr. xi, rather mr. obama. (the white house instruct address american president.)the whole negotiation somewhat opaque, mr. earnest recalled week. even stood next leaders great hall day, said sure chinese would follow agreement.the episode apparently sit well chinese. thursday, mr. trump’s press secretary, sarah huckabee sanders, said, “it chinese insistence questions.”former aides mr. obama mr. bush criticized trump white house trying harder.“they always insist, sarah,” susan e. rice, served mr. obama’s national security adviser, said tweet. “the trick use diplomacy extract concession matter principle, despite resistence.”brad dayspring, deputy director press advance mr. bush, tweeted, “never got everything pushed for, always expanded access chinese demands & ensured questions taken alongside chinese president. it’s important demonstration american press freedoms.”in tokyo seoul, mr. trump took questions leaders japan south korea. striking blow press freedom seem high list priorities beijing. say whether pressed mr. xi behind closed doors human rights issues.mr. obama, contrast, got mileage episode. two days later, standing next aung san suu kyi, burmese pro-democracy leader, garden lakeside house yangon, brought tense q. a. great hall people.“when traveling, important president united states talk interests, also talk values,” mr. obama said. “sometimes impact; sometimes doesn’t.”“although impressed mark landler got answer question president xi,” added. “it might one expecting, end taking question. keep chipping away seeing make progress.”
interviewed joe biden. sob took surprise. know terrifying moment hear voice crack, it’s crystal clear that, matter hard fight it, next syllable mouth wrapped sob?well, that’s meeting former vice president joe biden began.after 18 months pestering office interview “table three” series times — talk death elder son, beau, 2015, somehow manage go monumental losses — finally said yes. except piece would book review, time i’d spent asking, mr. biden written book subject. new memoir, “promise me, dad,” published tuesday.for me, secret pleasure interviewing people like mr. biden preparing interview them: diving press coverage writing, hunting clues men women behind public images, limited time them, bring fresh picture life. meant reading everything could find mr. biden, course. also waded world grief memoirs, books personal tragedy loss. read elegant pair joan didion, “the year magical thinking” (about death husband) “blue nights” (on death daughter). revisited poetic heartbreaker, “the light world,” elizabeth alexander, interviewed sheryl sandberg six months ago deaths husbands parenting grief.with books mr. biden’s life story head, created mission interview: would anyone put misery reliving painful moments life? literary matter, pull book like it’s depressing readers bear?thus armed, traveled last month mr. biden’s home leafy neighborhood wilmington, del. wife, jill, met us door showed photographer, ryan pfluger, wood-paneled, book-lined study, ryan would shoot mr. biden’s portrait would conduct interview. far end room, two doors opened onto raised patio, overlooking green lawns rolled picturesque lake.a minutes later, mr. biden’s sister longtime campaign manager, valerie biden owens, joined us. offered snack ryan prepared. one refuse pastry, followed kitchen. that’s first met mr. biden. sitting aide long kitchen table, looking like husband father america.maybe it: ordinary man domestic setting. maybe i’d recently finished account terrible loss. knows hearts work?in event, rose shake hand — friendly, cheerful even — something cracked open inside me. “congratulations book,” said. “it’s …” that’s sob strangled simple word i’d meant say: “beautiful.”“you can’t that,” mr. biden said. sounded strict. “if cry, i’ll cry,” said. “we help other.”i nodded agreement, quite ready speak, went back aide. picked éclair returned study. felt like idiot. persistence preparation, would go one bawled. long observed deeper affinity create subjects — whether vulnerability, humor strength — better interview. gone far.ms. owens followed back study. “you can’t him,” said, echoing brother.“it won’t happen again,” promised, wasn’t sure that. officially entered “self-doubt” phase interview. “can pull off?” wondered. happens every time.then mr. biden joined us, sitting photographs 15 20 minutes. chatted forthcoming book tour exercise regimen. ryan directed look left, right. found sea legs. began interview, mr. biden sat sofa across me, knew hadn’t lied sister: wouldn’t happen again. didn’t. dry-eyed mr. biden walked emotional literary thicket brought him. time finished, felt certain i’d forgiven rough start.
secret long life? ‘it’s good work lot’ hard work key longevity, says bella pevzner, 89.“i worked hard life,” said. “that’s stay long. it’s good work lot.”a heart operation 2002 halted irrepressible work ethic. “i retired age 74,” mrs. pevzner said recently. “if operation, maybe i’d work more. workaholic. tell you?”that dogged determination keep going rooted formative years. teenager, fled home country belarus 1941 nazis invaded it.her parents sister escaped, many relatives, among mrs. pevzner’s grandparents younger sister, slaughtered.after harrowing 300-mile journey, family found sanctuary kazakhstan. food resources scarce years. recalled walking barefoot snow. father, tailor, fashioned clothing flour sacks family.“we stayed there,” mrs. pevzner said. “it hard life.”after war, family settled ukraine, lived small basement apartment. slept iron beds, using rags mattress padding. years, mrs. pevzner one set garments: underwear, slippers cherry-colored dress white dots.“i washed every day, went work every day clothes,” said.mrs. pevzner worked bookkeeper help support household. 1953, matchmaker introduced man would marry. year later, son born.shortly mother died, mrs. pevzner, 50, immigrated united states husband son. know word english, wasted time learning it.“it hard learn dictionary, learned speaking,” mrs. pevzner said. “in brooklyn, walked streets, jewish people met talked yiddish, told them: ‘no, language. never forget. need speak english. speak english!’ insistent.”mrs. pevzner continued work 70s various employers, bookkeeper accountant, credits exercising mind keeping sharp. recalled one job bakery boss threatened fire use calculator compute discounts offered regular customers.“i figured everything head,” mrs. pevzner said. “my head good. it’s still bad.”today, mrs. pevzner says feels lucky 63-year-old son lives apartment across street home bensonhurst, brooklyn.her husband died liver cancer 2011, age taken toll health. diabetes, sleep apnea, hypertension, gout, respiratory illness, thyroid problems retinal disease.“i lot sickness, better tell want don’t have,” mrs. pevzner said. “it’s hard, hard, manage it. try best.”in 2014, jewish association serving aging, beneficiary agency uja-federation new york, began delivering mrs. pevzner kosher meals. uja-federation new york one eight organizations supported new york times neediest cases fund.mrs. pevzner receives $1,232 month social security income. april, association used $75 fund mrs. pevzner could buy fruit bake dishes passover meal. money also went toward buying special eye drops treat retinal disease. additional $46 used august provide mrs. pevzner shower bench.retirement allowed discover new interests. took painting age 80 visit center older adults. much art features animals landscapes, many creations hang frames walls. paintings remain unfinished; failing eyesight delayed completion.mrs. pevzner says expects continue thriving despite many maladies. father lived 97, determined live least 100. still much done, explained.“i don’t lose hope,” mrs. pevzner said. “i pictures finished, need finish.”
rap disrupted music first. it’s tv film. decades, hip-hop made screen — big small — intermittently. recently, there’s something boom: slew rap-infused shows, movies documentaries look back old-school era mid-1990s, revisiting periods hip-hop becoming driving force pop culture. projects underscore music’s role social political bellwether, even demand dive hidden histories, like involvement women ways violence shaped music.in spring, netflix wrapped “the get down,” baz luhrmann’s big-budget look birth hip-hop south bronx. june, “all eyez me,” long-troubled tupac shakur biopic, finally saw light day. july, dr. dre musical partner jimmy iovine subjects hbo’s “the defiant ones,” four-part documentary. early next year usa premiering “unsolved,” scripted true-crime series based investigations murders shakur notorious b.i.g.meanwhile, new generation creators arrived hip-hop embedded creative frameworks, like donald glover, rapper himself, fx’s “atlanta,” issa rae hbo’s “insecure.” new abc sitcom “the mayor,” young rapper runs office promote music ends city hall. daveed diggs, rapper former “hamilton” star, executive producer.recently questlove, drummer roots, contributed song “it ain’t fair” “detroit” soundtrack; salamishah tillet, writer professor english africana studies university pennsylvania; jon caramanica, pop critic times, got together discuss hip-hop dominates, innovates yet still remains niche television’s current “golden age.” edited excerpts conversation.jon caramanica “empire” ”atlanta” “the get down,” hip-hop subject inventive television last years. documentaries preserving music historical lens, it’s also celebrated — reimagined — artistic one.salamishah tillet yes, thought trend june bet premiered “tales,” irv (gotti) lorenzo’s series “song stories.” episode inspired lyrics hip-hop songs, like notorious b.i.g.’s “i got story tell.” first episode, realized hip-hop influential american culture made sense shape actual format television show too. especially now, tv networks trying appeal younger, diverse audience.questlove i’m jealous “tales,” least concept. back “chappelle’s show,” one ideas never quite panned similar conception. dave [chappelle] wanted make narrative stories hip-hop lyrics that, face, ridiculous. developed one, based nas’s “if ruled world,” took line “i’d open every cell attica, send ‘em africa,” built that. idea 2,000 prisoners orange jumpsuits getting airplane, nelson mandela standing there, saying, “what hell?”caramanica surprising chappelle decade anyone else — would loved see lens. conversation reminding annotation biggie smalls lyrics ran vibe magazine back 1998. michael eric dyson [now professor georgetown university] likened “the epic gilgamesh” “the godfather,” worthy consideration alongside great works art. back then, still newish, bold contentions.tillet sometimes it’s easy forget early creators hip-hop prove creating “music” so-called “noise.” recent crop films, like “straight outta compton” “all eyez me,” nostalgically remind us hard-fought battles prove hip-hop’s original naysayers censors dead wrong.questlove me, look music within 25-year cycle, way giving people thirties last go-round traveling childhood memories required wise older statesmen stateswomen. hip-hop reached moment life cycle.tillet so, mean hip-hop middle age? clearly music grown folks television — roots house band “the tonight show starring jimmy fallon,” biggie’s “hypnotize” selling oreo thins things, “empire” hit show. conditions make hip-hop’s rising profile tv possible? nearly 500 scripted shows year now. one way catering niche audiences hire kind showrunners haven’t tapped before. many cases, means us grew loving hip-hop creators consumers stories.questlove interesting projects ones sense history, sometimes actually dramatize links. bet mini-series new edition successful understood history — staged new edition’s inspirations influences part story. kids watching hearing “holding on” came see, instance, jeffrey osborne isn’t “on wings love” guy, l.t.d., funk soul band whose work one main inspirations new edition.caramanica history popular music country lock step rest country’s history, slavery era now. that’s it’s crucial tell stories faithfully perspectives. “straight outta compton” biopic, also functions cultural political history. “the get down” magical realism, doubles lens onto government-abetted devastation new york city created space raw cultural innovation. aren’t stories sounds — they’re documents, biographical fictional, struggles nation.tillet recent trio films west coast hip-hop remind us underbelly american history, showing us police brutality african americans ’80s early ’90s — like rodney king’s beating l.a.p.d. — birthed n.w.a’s rage enabled tupac’s reign. way, recent back-to-back appearance films validates stories underscores version racial violence, despite conservative backlash time (and today!), truth. movies carry political urgency speaks volumes era black lives matter nfl players kneeling national anthem.questlove think it, though, it’s also important note there’s element that’s generally missing latest crop films. that’s drug violence culture. crack guns central movies ’90s, like “juice” “menace ii society.” now, hip-hop movies don’t depict much, maybe drugs choice moment, like weed, either accepted recreational legal pharmaceuticals like opioids affecting white kids much black kids. that’s content rather style, it’s another example idea hip-hop culture shifted years.caramanica 90s — “in living color,” “new jack city,” “the fresh prince bel-air,” “boyz n hood” — hollywood’s appetite black film tv seemed dry up. spoke lack imagination sorts hip-hop-informed films shows might made. “dope,” came couple years ago, felt like sibling films you’re talking about, vastly different framework.questlove really like “dope,” interesting movie me, bridge hard-core hip-hop movies ’90s aware inclusive millennial attitude now. there’s openness sexual orientation, educational possibilities different kinds diversity.anyway, look back events early 90s, whether los angeles riots heyday “yo! mtv raps,” see period hip-hop became vehicle rebellion. back hip-hop wasn’t selling like crazy, starting represent challenge established order rock ‘n’ roll represented decades. nirvana topped charts “nevermind,” marked sea change american pop music. but, nirvana, n.w.a’s “efil4zaggin,” first so-called hard-core hip-hop album top charts. get ice cube’s “the predator.” cypress hill’s “black sunday.” snoop dogg’s “doggystyle.” partly that’s nostalgia coming hot heavy tv film world now. period hip-hop still connected ideas challenging power speaking out. it’s alternative history.tillet “history gets told winners,” laments r&b singer michel’le lifetime biopic “surviving compton,” came last year. film’s narrator, talking erasure rise n.w.a “straight outta compton,” extension absence black women stories. movie depicts domestic abuse singer alleged experienced living dr. dre also focuses importance r&b vocal contributions dre’s early sound success. (dr. dre denied abusing michel’le.) many ways, biopic corrective “straight outta compton” “the defiant ones”; link hip-hop’s maturity cultural phenomenon story dr. dre coming manhood. “surviving compton” highlights sexist challenges african-american women endured early producers, singers, rappers, d.j.s plain old fans hip-hop.questlove here, want make case “the breaks,” started tv movie became series vh1 moving bet. “the breaks” early ’90s hip-hop, it’s well-crafted. writing great, minor details correct. get drum machines right. get microphones right. also helps inspired “the big payback,” book written one founding fathers hip-hop journalism, dan charnas, writing long-form essays hip-hop world back anyone wanted anything it. he’s already part culture, show respects extends that.tillet like “the breaks” central character, nikki, woman rapper d.j., real genius behind vision, hustle, sound style early ’90s hip-hop . (like cookie, finally gets c.e.o. “empire”!) descendant pioneering female entrepreneurs executives, like sylvia robinson sugar hill records, ensured hip-hop would live far future.caramanica i’m excited promise happens genre’s influence even diffuse — hip-hop subject matter, even soundtrack, rather serves knowledge base, aesthetic framework value set shapes kinds creative output. look viceland’s slate shows: talk show, “desus & mero,” that’s high-end hip-hop public-access television; “huang’s world,” chef eddie huang reckons global culture politics informed hip-hop; loose-format food programming starring rapper-gourmand action bronson. none shows hip-hop real way, carry values world. also don’t want gloss integral hip-hop late-reality-tv era, thanks mona scott-young “love & hip hop” empire many imitators.tillet course, reality shows like “love & hip hop” “growing hip hop” little music, interpersonal drama fueled hip-hop culture. i’m drawn shows films revel hip-hop’s innovation rather ones steeped nostalgia melodrama.questlove me, fx’s “atlanta” would happen woody allen directed master p’s “i’m bout it.” it’s one first black surrealist hip-hop comedies.tillet set now, “atlanta” “insecure” privilege fighting early culture wars. simply assume reign hip-hop today experimental incorporate hip-hop aesthetic shows. “atlanta” best analogue hip-hop i’ve ever seen tv — storytelling playful, defiant, dissonant, magical, tragic, decadent triumphant, once. what’s fun issa rae’s protagonist issa dee “insecure,” isn’t wannabe m.c., but, rather, rap art form turns fly, talking friends.caramanica it’s confirmation we’ve known years already: hip-hop lingua franca. “the mayor,” new abc sitcom, rapper runs mayor — wins — don’t find even slightly fanciful. mostly i’m trying figure real-life rapper going make fictional narrative real.tillet “the mayor” feels like bit throwback me. like “fresh prince” ran public office. love idea mayor’s political obligations competing artistic ambitions. dilemma actual hip-hop artists, like jay-z, trying reconcile themselves.caramanica found striking courtney rose, titular mayor [played brandon micheal hall], says right bat wants perform taylor swift, gesture seemingly aiming please people red blue. (though honest, probably would opposite effect.) there’s genteel political toothlessness you’d expect abc family sitcom, maybe there’s something quietly radical hip-hop inserting even prosaic format.tillet flip side family-friendly tv, i’m assuming usa’s “unsolved: murders tupac notorious b.i.g.” culmination network’s move beyond blue skies grayer, serious television lineup. important, here’s hoping slate programs coming two decades biggie’s murder 1997, including johnny depp movie “labyrinth,” pressure los angeles police finally solve murders, give rappers’ families closure get us grew deaths generational tragedy closer truth ever before.
history, totally destroyed like many top intellectuals world over, i’ve thinking shape history itself. spurred emergence unexpected events personalities onto world stage, cogitating deeply questions we’ve we’re heading.the world-historical confrontation donald trump kim jong-un, may well proceed verbal actual armageddon, demands new understanding history: all, undeniably inexorably, leading this. north korea demands oust “lunatic” governs us face “the abyss doom,” dear leader characterizes chairman kim historically significant tweets “madman” suicide mission “totally destroy.”as top intellectuals know, hegel argued history, essence, coming-to-self-consciousness absolute; marx said dialectical unfolding material conditions production; michel foucault pointed succession “epistemes” (roughly, body common shared beliefs), inscribing regime power; francis fukuyama claimed over; jean baudrillard said never actually happened first place.before rival theories emerged, great man view history dominated field. “the history world nothing biography great men,” wrote thomas carlyle. ralph waldo emerson it: “it natural believe great men. call children lands names. names wrought verbs language, works effigies houses.”on view, drivers history races classes nations, particular military geniuses, religious messiahs, kings, dictators, inventors, captains industry, artists saints. great men swaggered onto stage one another, capturing conquering spirit age. notice, course, great man theory involved women. made perfect sense men writing theory history.but true test philosophies history history itself. suggest great man theory, though already battered marxism feminism, isn’t likely survive historical dialectic donald trump kim jong-un. phenomena suggest need completely fresh account history itself, new theory almost certainly ticket long-anticipated macarthur “genius” grant. would be, could settle name it.according mood, might termed jackass theory history, howling mediocrity account, colossal bungler hypothesis blockhead conjecture. rex tillerson writes suggest moron theory, insensitive toward intellectual disabilities.we must reckon fact: human history bumbling-about self-deluded incompetent doinks. surely going deny that. nothing much series pratfalls inept leaders suckers follow toward doom. incompetence historical force lives us.it painfully clear we’ve overestimated intelligence world-changing force; idiocy holds sway. bad decade, leader might spend $20 trillion deficit execute sparrows china. all, matter many times watch “the princess bride,” prospective world conquerors still get involved land wars asia. napoleon blundered way europe way east, creating disaster millions others, hegel greeted “world history horseback.” perhaps hegel great man thing wrong end up.the traditional culmination philosophy history identify goal, end destination whole human saga. speculate trump-kim dialectic final stage, history simultaneously realizes annihilates itself, us it. hand, might keep floundering longer, new pseudo-divine bozos arise old ones go like jetliners.this lot process. gaze stupefied upon continuing disaster, comfort knowledge understand driving forces making happen, thanks big chump theory history. thank later. maybe better thank now.
making space home office setting home office simple placing desk spare room opening laptop kitchen table. work home regular basis, deserve makeshift workspace — replica claustrophobic cubicle left behind.“make home office fit personality interests,” said lisa kanarek, author “organize home office success” founder work-from-home blog called working naked. “without confines corporate setting, create space inspires productive creative. goal design place look forward working day, even though commute may seconds.”below, 10 tips help jump-start home office makeover.take inventory “i recommend making list supplies you’ll need work regular basis, well files records need keep,” said melissa michaels, author decorating blogger seattle. “consider number hours day you’ll spending computer need place meet clients home.”add list health considerations preferences, including would better standing desk kitchen island. “assessing situation needs give starting point priorities selecting appropriate office furniture.” (for tips establishing good work-from-home habits finding inexpensive gear improve workspace, consult new york times smarter living section.)and beyond practical matters, consider make want there, whether that’s natural light nearby window inspiring piece art.blend “to carve home office main living area, look aesthetically pleasing ways create visually distinct cohesive room,” said ms. michaels, noting tall plants work well organic dividers desk living space.“the struggle always address function space sacrificing beauty,” said donna mondi, interior designer chicago. “assuming home office connected main living space, needs flow aesthetically complement overall design scheme.”ms. mondi, example, made space client’s living room office nook placing stylish writing desk metallic legs black faux-crocodile top corner near window. “this particular spot lots natural light, calm peaceful colors,” said. “and rich textures made perfect place escape to.”when home office “in formal part home,” added, “the furnishings need reflect level formality, everything blends seamlessly.”make furniture double-duty look furniture already consider whether could use storage home office, suggested ms. kanarek, author work-from-home blogger. uses antique dresser spare bedroom store printer office supplies, said, coffee table shelves storage inside could used store files supplies work sofa.“one clients uses dining room home office day stores equipment supplies large sideboard,” said. “when entertains, one knows along one wall fully functioning home office.”don’t sit back door “you want desk feel like commanding view room,” said anita rosenberg, space consultant practitioner feng shui los angeles. “people built-ins don’t space, staring wall. that’s great place 12 hours day.”what want aim “command position,” enables see front door without direct line it, said judith wendell, manhattan-based feng shui consultant, confers feeling empowerment. option back front door, added, place mirror wall front see front door mirror.keep office bedroom “obviously, don’t want take work bed you,” ms. wendell said. “perhaps less obvious don’t want work sleepy lazy chi.”another reason separating two, ms. rosenberg said: “you don’t want go sleep thinking work stressed electronics bedroom.”put closet space available bedroom, bureau doors hide computer, books, papers printer night good workaround. “many times steal small closet create office nook that’s perfectly appointed,” said ms. mondi, interior designer. “built-in cabinets make efficient use space best way incorporate much function possible.”just keep mind you’ll need extra lighting power computers, printers, chargers. “for unexpected touch add wall covering” inside cabinet bureau, said, “to give office personality make feel less like closet.”hide behind cabinetry don’t spare closet, still conceal workspace. “with new home projects, we’re incorporating hidden offices kitchen,” ms. mondi said. “they concealed cabinet fronts, disappears kitchen use.”another design trick, said, add paneling create hidden wall storage essentially disappears: “it’s great way camouflage necessary evils.”accessorize ms. mondi also uses art, light fixtures decorative elements ensure home office designs isn’t “all business,” said.“the best office spaces tell story person” belong to, added. “be creative choosing colors, materials, lighting, accessories, easily turn favorite room house.”upgrade desk “i’m big fan writing desk, rather clunky, functional desks past,” ms. mondi said. “if you’re even least bit tech-savvy, won’t need much way file storage. small drawer two gives enough space small accessories. gain lighter piece furniture typically far beautiful.”or away altogether “the idea desk, file cabinet, bookcase storage cabinets work home longer applies, especially main piece home-office equipment laptop,” ms. kanarek said. “i use closet spare bedroom store supplies files, time work porch, family room sofa, nearby coffee shop wherever feel inspired work day. need laptop wi-fi.”
gay husband, dire diagnosis best-laid plans old yiddish proverb goes: man plans god laughs.and man, plan. careers require much planning career medicine. process enough encompass life one person; add another mix, planning becomes all-consuming.jarrett met pre-med freshmen chemistry lab became fast friends, laughing flame bunsen burner set experiments. soon inseparable, playing endless games dr. mario nintendo study sessions. sometimes, night fraternity hazing, would come dorm room profess love me. initially laughed off, reminding best friend. spring freshman year, relationship changed. felt beshert — meant be. driven love mutual goals, started planning.we managed get residency programs city moved new york chicago, two newly crowned m.d.’s flush excitement perfectly executed wedding sent us off.but working combined 160 hours per week tough marriage. cheerful, thoughtful husband becoming increasingly moody distant. confronted him: affair? no! love anymore? no. gay? silence.“i think might be,” said.with words, everything changed. stayed nights end, talking circles. withdrew world, retreating closet along him. “we love other, fix this,” told ourselves. eventually became clear “fixable” problem. gradually confided family friends, putting aside reluctance “out” him; jarrett came same, finally accepting long-hidden part himself. moved finished latter half residencies newly single, plunging world online dating, market thirtysomething men.i learned live without him. “matched” again, planned move philadelphia — new start.the next hiccup plans cough. first, mostly near-daily four-mile run, soon constant. time, reading “when breath becomes air” dr. paul kalanithi, neurosurgery resident learned stage iv lung cancer age 36. fleeting moment panic, shared fear co-resident reading book. confessed similar thoughts, reassured — course neither us lung cancer. winter; worked hospital; everyone coughing.i still wearing hospital scrubs went get chest x-ray.maybe that’s technician spoke unusually direct way: “i’m radiologist, definitely something there.”despite best plans “start over” divorce, jarrett ended philadelphia fellowships. seen since move, eyes met across sweaty room spin studio. resolutely decided interact necessary.it seemed necessary. knew people new city. suddenly seemed beshert ex lived worked right next door. jarrett first person called doctor’s office was, immediately side resume abandoned duties best friend.i spent following days hospital, family beside me, balancing wobbly tightrope separated doctor patient. medical team would come relay information complicated jargon often familiar lay english. found translating everything back terrified parents, patients trying soften blow bad news.“right inferior mediastinal mass encasing occluding right inferior pulmonary vein” became “i something looks like tumor middle chest.” “favored represent lymphoma” became, “i probably type blood cancer, get that.” “other unusual primary lung malignancies occur patient age, considered much less likely” became “don’t worry, don’t lung cancer.”the morning oncologist came hospital room told lung cancer, laughing parents. it’s expecting good news, wasn’t. unprepared hear “lung cancer” hear jarrett say “i’m gay.”i felt begin tip tightrope tried grab back on, terrified begin long descent toward “patient” side. wavered, could hear mother background trying assure “we’d get it.” oncologist, voice cracking, explained parents plain english cancers curable. mine stage iv.i still tried translate, time could barely get words out. “that means going live long life.”as physician, trained observant, pick subtle clues. sometimes think determined stick plan neglected see right front me. consider many men like flowers mean gay, many 32-year-olds get cough winter lung cancer.i living cancer year. treatment has, times, left feeling sicker could ever imagined. felt deeply angry, profoundly sad all-around terrified.but first time, also learning enjoy instead focusing later. might never see finish line fellowship graduation, still doctor; lucky enough learning every day still make patients’ lives better. years education training allowed build supportive community friends colleagues throughout country. family stayed it.and, better worse, gay ex-husband me, always.
catalonia, church becomes place artistic pilgrimage child, barcelona-born painter santi moix often made weekend trips father saurí, remote catalan village 16 people perched high pyrenees. now, 57, moix perhaps closest thing saurí local celebrity, built career exhibiting work brooklyn museum milan’s m77 gallery, prada’s soho store (a 2013 commission) featuring abstract, hypersaturated flora fauna murals.five years ago, local government bishop asked artist might come paint interior st. victor, village’s 1,100-year-old romanesque church, whose plain stone walls become dull decrepit time. moix, isn’t religious, reluctant. finally, many months negotiations, agreed — he’d granted full artistic license, free conceptual obligations church state. “i clear would paint saints martyrs,” says.what ended producing largest piece date, 1,200 square feet frescoes cover church, describes “huge garden full fantasy.” new eden — painstakingly mapped brooklyn studio — abounds psychedelic daisies, spotted salamanders, beasts tentacles copulating sheep, rendered cloudlike swaths grass green, cornflower yellow strawberry pink. assistants sanded plastered st. victor’s walls (and covered mediocre art), moix spent three years saurí, on, painting scenes directly onto building’s surfaces 15 hours day using handmade boar-bristle brushes organic pigments diluted water. “like human skin tattoos,” says, “the colors continue absorb months come.”the motifs appear fauvist natural world central moix’s work, though says found inspiring opportunity strip place worship religious iconography. (st. victor, welcomed parishioners continuously since founding ninth century, closed transformation, open month.) “churches used strike fear images demons fire,” moix says. “i loved idea overwhelming colors instead.” catalan government diocese hired agree; members conceived residency — expand pair regional artists neglected catholic properties — way replacing once-vibrant biblical paintings filled hundreds churches region sold stolen.in painting st. victor, moix joining storied tradition: catholic church is, course, responsible much christian world’s greatest artistic endeavors. also part recent movement, one sees contemporary artists remaking religious spaces. earlier year, american painter julie mehretu converted out-of-use harlem church soaring studio made giant, 32-foot-wide paintings (now display san francisco museum modern art) occasionally hosted visitors. u.k.-based sculptor gareth neal designer chris eckersley recently reskinned one london church, neal hold solo show another march. winter, space inspired romanesque chapels designed late ellsworth kelly unveiled blanton museum art austin, tex.it’s easy dismiss projects opportunistic, way claiming magnificent buildings left behind increasingly godless times service art world’s love larger-than-life spectacle. moix sees commission way revive region — one currently fraught conflict — called home. “i want give something locals proud of,” says. occasionally, he’s painting, saurí residents popped in, offering approving nods, even prayers. moments, moix lets be.
women cracked wartime codes. fix tech today, too. died 2016 age 94, ann caracristi, first female deputy director national security agency, liked reminisce absurd stereotypes women contend back entered public service world war ii. chief among — found somewhat amusing — notion women intellectually gifted men.genius male trait, widely believed 1940s. thinking went men brilliant sex, women better suited tedious tasks requiring humble virtues like patience focus. typing, example. filing. — case caracristi, interviewed book female code breakers — sorting categorizing. 1942, newly graduated russell sage college, caracristi recruited work stuffy attic former girls’ school washington area converted secret military code-breaking office. staff, many young women like her, sorted reams intercepted japanese messages pioneered new techniques.caracristi’s brilliance soon announced itself: female boss, schoolteacher west virginia, broke code enabled american military pinpoint location japanese troops. caracristi would rise become one storied women national security agency.more 70 years war ended, astonishing see doubts re-emerge women’s ability high-level intellectual work. far put rest, old prejudice found new expression naysayers like james damore, google engineer, fired, suggested infamous memo women shut top jobs silicon valley “biologically” suited brain work tech.when americans think veterans veterans day — infrequently — often think acts valor fixed earlier era. story country’s female veterans, pressed service trying time, tell us lot challenges face today, contributions civilian women, like caracristi, played critical role wartime military effort.in certain important ways, early 1940s progressive, experimental era military recruited many quarters. era give us clues performing better sectors today. worst, costliest, bloodiest war american history, inclusive mind-set helped allies defeat nazis.women key number wartime advances, presence crucial intelligence communications, well arena combines both: signals intelligence, code breaking. world war ii war encrypted signals. armies navies fought distant corners globe, combatants developed myriad code cipher systems cloak radio telegraph communications, code breaking came way eavesdrop enemy plans.more half american code-breaking force female — roughly 10,000 women. many college graduates shut graduate schools excluded fields math engineering, place talents.even america’s formal entry war, women formed important part civilian staff clandestine offices attempting break japanese european systems. one genevieve grotjan, mathematician aspired teach college-level math unable find university math department willing hire her. joined team trying break “purple,” cipher-generating machine used japanese diplomats.the team labored year; september 1940, grotjan spotted coincidence broke cipher. breakthrough provided key intelligence entire war officials privy contents called “magic.”once attack pearl harbor brought america war, country’s code-breaking offices enlarged. men shipped overseas fast ships could get there, military leaders — congress — realized united states could staff multi-ocean war using men, women’s military groups created.women went work air traffic control towers and, despite fears would become hysterical crisis, kept wits. addition millions female factory workers, women ran radios radar, worked chemists, bacteriologists gunnery instructors — calculated weapon trajectories.those tested high aptitude routed two top-secret code-breaking centers washington area, one army one navy.other women joined office strategic services, forerunner c.i.a. vassar math professor, grace hopper, helped develop navy’s mark computer. team women programmed army’s first large-scale, general-purpose digital computer. (programming time considered somewhat secretarial, women employed it.)it’s much stretch say inclusion — willingness welcome genius — one reason right side war. country also benefited contributions marginalized groups, including navajo code talkers, tuskegee airmen black troops (including women) serving segregated military.there lesson tech bros. economists long mystified impulse discriminate, given shutting group deprives society advances. studies show diverse teams get better results. inclusion never entails “lowering bar.” enlarges pool talent brings best people in.to sure, even war, inclusion seen temporary emergency measure, spectacle tens thousands young women boarding trains nation’s capital unnerved many. ads posters featured plaintive children asking, “mother, stay home again?” war, backlash set in. female code breakers got little public credit achievements, credit would long time coming towering figures like grace hopper. are: notion genius male trait raised head.in today’s rhetorical climate, it’s handful entitled engineers feel empowered impugn certain groups. animus lies behind trump administration’s eagerness exclude refugees, behind proposed ban transgender people serving military. gratuitously acting exclude willing citizens military service, president declined avail array ingenuity courage nation offer.world war ii reminder that, freedom hung balance, inclusion kept us safe. it’s also reminder military took lead social change time families felt connected military service. greatly divided. we’re losing key military edge could lose technical one, give notion groups gifted others. history shown exclusion tends approach of, donald trump might put it, losers.
lesson biggest losers: exercise keeps weight question plagues struggle weight: us manage keep lost pounds, others regain them?now, study 14 participants “biggest loser” television show provides answer: physical activity — much public health guidelines suggest.on average, managed maintain significant weight loss 80 minutes day moderate activity, like walking, 35 minutes day vigorous exercise, like running.the researchers conducting new study distinguish purposeful exercise, like going gym working out, exercise done course day, like walking work taking stairs.guidelines centers disease control prevention, comparison, call least 150 minutes week moderate exercise, 75 minutes week vigorous exercise healthy adults.the study published tuesday journal obesity. lead author, kevin hall, chief integrative physiology section national institute diabetes digestive kidney diseases, colleagues also presented work obesity society’s annual meeting.although study small must replicated, dr. hall said, first assess obese people years lost weight state-of-the-art methods measure calories consumed amount exercise done.the researchers measurements contestants chosen, six weeks, 30 weeks six years contest began.“the findings important,” said rena wing, psychiatry professor brown university founder national weight control registry, includes 10,000 people.the food eaten “is key determinant initial weight loss. physical activity key maintenance,” said.the study also helps explain might be. one consequence weight loss among “biggest loser” participants greatly slowed metabolism.the subjects burning average 500 fewer calories day would expected, dr. hall colleagues found. essence, bodies fighting weight loss.those kept weight “are countering drop metabolism physical activity,” dr. hall said.during initial weight loss, equation different. then, difference much weight “biggest loser” contestants lost could explained number calories cut diets. amount exercise distinguish lost lost less.the contestants competed six months see could lose weight. participants followed grueling diet exhausting exercise program.contestants’ average weight start show 329 pounds. end, 200 pounds, 129-pound loss. six years study ended, average weight rebounded 290 pounds, 38 pounds less started.that average, though, hid wide variations.to learn more, dr. hall colleagues divided group 14 two. “regainers,” seven participants ended six years weighing five pounds average start.and “maintainers,” seven maintained average weight loss 81 pounds.to measure number calories contestants burned, researchers asked subjects drink “doubly labeled water,” hydrogen oxygen atoms least partially replaced stable isotopes, different atomic mass.the oxygen isotopes appear carbon dioxide exhaled subjects, allowed researchers estimate average amount exhaled day. calories burned, carbon dioxide exhaled.some “biggest loser” contestants — including first author, dr. jennifer kerns, obesity specialist veterans affairs medical center washington — said conclusions new study confirmed experiences.dr. kerns, contestant season 3 show, says managed keep 100 pounds tracking everything eats exercising elliptical cross-trainer 35 40 minutes day. addition, job requires walk around hospital seeing patients.she learned cannot relax regimen wants maintain weight. “my natural tendency regain,” said.erinn egbert candidate season 8 “biggest loser” ultimately make cut. went home “to figure own.”she hired two trainers followed diet exercise program finished senior year ohio state university. weighed 237 pounds show began lost 120 pounds.she maintained weight eight pounds more. rigid portion control regular, intense exercise — 45 minutes hour day, monday saturday, beachbody programs, challenging combination strength training cardiovascular exercise.ms. egbert, 30 lives lexington, ky., says learned importance working consistently stay thin, even slowed metabolism.“you got keep every single day,” said.it’s difficult task virtually anyone, dr. kerns said: “the amount time dedication takes manage one’s food intake prioritize exercise every day untenable burden many people.”“it’s totally unfair judge can’t it,” added.dr. hall agreed. “the idea people regain lost weight necessarily slothful gluttonous unfortunate stigmatization based fact,” said.danny cahill, 47 lives tulsa, okla., among found increasingly difficult keep sort regimen needed avoid gaining weight.he “biggest loser” competition season 8. weighed 430 pounds show began, lost 239 them.for four years show, exercised two half hours day gained back 40 pounds.then injuries began, forcing cut back workouts one half hours day. weight crept 235 pounds.the next year, “my body started breaking down,” said. “i foot injury, wrist injury. couldn’t keep up.” exhausted.his weight went 300 pounds. last two years, weight remained stable 340 350 pounds, “but eating little can,” said.“that’s disheartening part,” mr. cahill said. losing pounds one thing. keeping off?“i still struggling it,” said.
finally, breakfast tiffany certain movie scenes iconic still retain importance pop-culture lexicon, even decades later. holly golightly, played audrey hepburn, stepped yellow cab sauntered window tiffany & co. 1961 film “breakfast tiffany’s,” henry mancini johnny mercer’s “moon river” playing background, scene created.as holly ate croissant carried cup coffee, still, unfortunately, outside building. since 1837, tiffany’s preeminent luxury jeweler place could actually breakfast. however, changed friday, opening blue box café, company’s venerable flagship store fifth avenue west 57th street new york city. menu items seasonal reflect sophisticated take variety new york dishes.located fourth floor building, houses recently renovated home accessories section, café bright, airy space, “breakfast tiffany” breakfast starting $29. offering comes coffee tea, followed croissant seasonal fruit rounded choice buttermilk waffle, smoked salmon bagel stack, truffle eggs, avocado toast.the prix fixe lunch, includes starter main courses like fifth avenue salad, maine lobster, grapefruit poppyseed dressing, olive-oil poached salmon, caviar smashed potatoes, costs $39.with nod long-heralded regality location, also “tiffany tea” menu offering ($49), featuring teas bellocq, well selection finger sandwiches bakery items. individual sweets warm beverages also available, espresso ($5) slice chocolate mousse cake ($12).the café, outfitted tables accommodate many different group sizes, accentuated heavy usage company’s classic robin’s-egg blue motif everything walls plates. two blocks southern boundary central park, café excellent window view popular destination.with many traditional retailers losing customers brick mortar locations online competitors, increased focus cultivating experiences shoppers. tiffany’s recently opened temporary concept store manhattan’s rockefeller center, another location set open nearby grand central terminal. stores feature selection jewelry, home items accessories.according reed krakoff, chief artistic officer tiffany & co., led redesign café adjoining home accessories section, emphasis showcasing modern luxury. “the space experimental experiential – window new tiffany,” mr. krakoff said statement.for generations hepburn fans, outsized presence flagship store allowed retrace steps movie, truly breakfast tiffany’s, 56 years film’s release.
explains u.s. mass shootings? international comparisons suggest answer world looks united states, sees land exceptions: time-tested noisy democracy, crusader foreign policy, exporter beloved music film.but one quirk consistently puzzles america’s fans critics alike. why, ask, experience many mass shootings?perhaps, speculate, american society unusually violent. racial divisions frayed bonds society. citizens lack proper mental care health care system draws frequent derision abroad.these explanations share one thing common: though seemingly sensible, debunked research shootings elsewhere world. instead, ever-growing body research consistently reaches conclusion.the variable explain high rate mass shootings america astronomical number guns.the top-line numbers suggest correlation that, investigation, grows clearer.americans make 4.4 percent global population 42 percent world’s guns. 1966 2012, 31 percent gunmen mass shootings worldwide american, according 2015 study adam lankford, professor university alabama.adjusted population, yemen higher rate mass shootings among countries 10 million people — distinction mr. lankford urged avoid outliers. yemen world’s second-highest rate gun ownership united states.worldwide, mr. lankford found, country’s rate gun ownership correlated odds would experience mass shooting. relationship held even excluded united states, indicating could explained factor particular home country. held controlled homicide rates, suggesting mass shootings better explained society’s access guns baseline level violence.if mental health made difference, data would show americans mental health problems people countries fewer mass shootings. mental health care spending rate united states, number mental health professionals per capita rate severe mental disorders line wealthy countries.a 2015 study estimated 4 percent american gun deaths could attributed mental health issues. mr. lankford, email, said countries high suicide rates tended low rates mass shootings — opposite would expect mental health problems correlated mass shootings.whether population plays fewer video games also appears impact. americans likely play video games people developed country.racial diversity factors associated social cohesion also show little correlation gun deaths. among european countries, little association immigration diversity metrics rates gun murders mass shootings.america’s gun homicide rate 33 per million people 2009, far exceeding average among developed countries. canada britain, 5 per million 0.7 per million, respectively, also corresponds differences gun ownership.americans sometimes see expression deeper problems crime, notion ingrained, part, series films portraying urban gang violence early 1990s. united states actually prone crime developed countries, according landmark 1999 study franklin e. zimring gordon hawkins university california, berkeley.rather, found, data since repeatedly confirmed, american crime simply lethal. new yorker likely robbed londoner, instance, new yorker 54 times likely killed process.they concluded discrepancy, like many anomalies american violence, came guns.more gun ownership corresponds gun murders across virtually every axis: among developed countries, among american states, among american towns cities controlling crime rates. gun control legislation tends reduce gun murders, according recent analysis 130 studies 10 countries.this suggests guns cause violence.skeptics gun control sometimes point 2016 study. 2000 2014, found, united states death rate mass shooting 1.5 per one million people. rate 1.7 switzerland 3.4 finland, suggesting american mass shootings actually common.but study found united states 133 mass shootings. finland two, killed 18 people, switzerland one, killed 14. short, isolated incidents. mass shootings happen anywhere, matter routine united states.as crime, underlying risk impossible fully erase. individual snap become entranced violent ideology. different likelihood lead mass murder.in china, dozen seemingly random attacks schoolchildren killed 25 people 2010 2012. used knives; none used gun.by contrast, window, united states experienced five deadliest mass shootings, killed 78 people. scaled population, american attacks 12 times deadly.in 2013, american gun-related deaths included 21,175 suicides, 11,208 homicides 505 deaths caused accidental discharge. year japan, country one-third america’s population, guns involved 13 deaths.this means american 300 times likely die gun homicide accident japanese person. america’s gun ownership rate 150 times high japan’s. gap 150 300 shows gun ownership statistics alone explain makes america different.the united states also weakest controls may buy gun sorts guns may owned.switzerland second-highest gun ownership rate developed country, half united states. gun homicide rate 2004 7.7 per million people — unusually high, keeping relationship gun ownership murders, still fraction rate united states.swiss gun laws stringent, setting higher bar securing keeping license, selling guns types guns owned. laws reflect tighter restrictions. imply different way thinking guns, something citizens must affirmatively earn right own.the united states one three countries, along mexico guatemala, begin opposite assumption: people inherent right guns.the main reason american regulation gun ownership weak may fact trade-offs simply given different weight united states anywhere else.after britain mass shooting 1987, country instituted strict gun control laws. australia 1996 shooting. united states repeatedly faced calculus determined relatively unregulated gun ownership worth cost society.that choice, statistic regulation, sets united states apart.“in retrospect sandy hook marked end us gun control debate,” dan hodges, british journalist, wrote post twitter two years ago, referring 2012 attack killed 20 young students elementary school connecticut. “once america decided killing children bearable, over.”
vast indigenous land claims canada encompass parliament hill pikwakanagan first nation, ontario — whenever prime minister justin trudeau cabinet ministers speak certain parts ontario quebec, begin acknowledging “unceded algonquin territory.”that recognition one ways mr. trudeau’s government trying signal top priority: righting wrongs canada done indigenous people, especially land aboriginals say taken unjustly.but finding common ground issue proved one mr. trudeau’s difficult policy initiatives, critics say efforts resolve land disputes bogged down. sides agree importance sorting claims.“the process negotiating land claims absolute pillar reconciliation,” said ken coates, historian university saskatchewan studies treaties consultant indigenous groups. “this chance get right don’t — boy, get chance again?”of many issues dividing canada’s federal provincial governments indigenous people, land claims among symbolically important economically consequential, often involving vast amounts land.some claims involve hundreds millions dollars, tribes often interested controlling land issue, by, example, say logging, oil exploration mining.one claim various algonquin groups involves 8.9 million acres ottawa watershed — includes canada’s parliament buildings supreme court. government thought settled claim principle year ago, ended litigation anyway.the claims legally thorny, often requiring historians, archaeologists, geographers geologists give evidence sometimes stretching back recorded history support, challenge, them.in regions, land may occupied different indigenous groups different times, even changing hands battles unrecorded. groups may assert rights, claims overlap.then problem treaties. indigenous groups, like algonquins, never signed treaties giving land. government says talking 140 indigenous groups situation.others sign treaties, government tribunal deals treaty disputes 72 cases overwhelmed cannot estimate long take resolve them.the result settlement negotiations occur frustratingly slow pace.“because there’s many cases haven’t dealt years, there’s big backlog, it’s going take years,” said regional chief craig makinaw assembly first nations, country’s largest indigenous organization. “nothing’s really moved.”but claims resolved.after 20 years talks, parliament 2014 approved deal tla’amin first nation, involving land along coast north vancouver. gave members indigenous group ownership 21,000 acres, upfront payments 42 million canadian dollars annual compensation 700,000 canadian dollars resources, like lumber, harvested land.the supreme court canada ruled last year métis, people indigenous european ancestry, could also assert land claims areas traditionally lived. month later, carolyn bennett, minister charge negotiations indigenous groups, formally committed government settle métis manitoba, promised 2,150 square miles land 147 years ago.that claim includes city winnipeg, although manitoba métis leadership said intend take land owned others. ultimately, government land outside city likely transferred.sabrina williams, spokeswoman ms. bennett, said government trying best find way sort claims. “we believe need able construct relationship never achieved success,” said.but chief makinaw, cree alberta, says government’s figures outstanding claims understated processes fossilized. indigenous leaders critical government set aside money indigenous groups say need assume control land claims settled.“this government good talking lot strong action,” said chief jean guy whiteduck kitigan zibi, algonquin reserve quebec 70 miles north ottawa.of outstanding land issues, algonquin claims involving ottawa watershed, huge swath territory eastern ontario western quebec, perhaps complex country.the land conflict started algonquins 1800, group settlers established town near chaudière falls, upstream canada’s parliament sits. years, land algonquins controlled shrank reserves. groups algonquins left land all.about 25 years ago, algonquin groups started formal talks federal government, later province ontario, resolving claims. last october, algonquins ontario, provincial federal governments, reached land agreement principle.about 4,000 algonquins would get 117,000 acres government-owned land 300 million canadian dollars. would also say management planning even larger area government owned land. .but algonquins quebec declined take part talks rejected deal. court ontario try rip agreement, get money increased role future use land.“we want partners canada stay reserve,” said mr. whiteduck, former bush plane pilot.an algonquin leader ottawa side said regrets rift wants bring quebec agreement. kirby whiteduck (many unrelated algonquins area share surnames), chief pikwakanagan first nation, west ottawa, said prepared spend years trying heal divide.“we don’t want sitting 50, 100 years later there’s five million people territory 50 acres crown land left,” said.jean guy whiteduck said even quebec algonquin push different deal, recognize reality european settlement interested seizing taxing homes private property — displacing politicians parliament hill. still appreciate symbolic importance claims ottawa.“our action also includes parliament supreme court land want stir good try get action them,” said.some disputed land ended hands ottawa company, windmill development group, now, along financial partner, spending 1.4 billion canadian dollars development project, known zibi, includes condos, offices, restaurants stores. property encompasses parts banks ottawa river ottawa gatineau, quebec.as private company building privately owned land, windmill legal obligation compensate indigenous groups negotiate them. jeff westeinde, principal windmill, believes even private property owner, obligation reconcile indigenous communities past wrongs.“as private citizens think something,” mr. westeinde said. “we committed apartheid, there’s ands buts it. success us community algonquin friends come say: ‘yes, that’s community too.’”
chinese village keeps alive tradition indigo dyeing dali village, china — young woman sat foot wooden loom began weave. fingers passed orange shuttle back forth delicate cotton threads, creaky contraption sprang life.yang xiuying — plucky woman taller loom — peered granddaughter’s shoulder, inspecting newly emerging fabric flaws. ever since young girl, ms. yang, 74, weaving dyeing indigo textiles using techniques ethnic dong southern chinese province guizhou passed mother daughter generations.“you can’t buy type handmade cloth market,” ms. yang said, patting bolt gleaming indigo-colored cloth wrinkled, navy-stained hands.here dali, ancient village nestled verdant hills, making indigo cloth long part life, less important dong farming rice fermenting fish.even era fast fashion, many dong women still devote countless hours making dark, glossy cloth. fabric must woven, wrung, scrubbed pounded used create traditional dong cotton garments — dark navy costumes colorful flower trim women plain indigo men.“for dong family, loom important cow,” said lai lei, founder weaving dyeing co-op nearby village. “as children, grow listening sound loom.”dyeing woven dali’s culture practice even survived cultural revolution, many dong traditions, shamanism, stamped communist fanatics trying destroy saw feudal past.but traditions come different threat since china’s market economy took recent decades. lure work education drawn youth china’s growing cities, young dong women left villages like one.of remain, even fewer show interest learning labor-intensive techniques indigo dyeing.“i want teach daughters, don’t want learn,” said zhang yuyuan, 75, stepped back plunging fabric navy-blue bath. “they say, ‘we’ll mess up, it.’”hoping save dali’s folk traditions, provincial officials 2011 invited global heritage fund, preservation organization based california.the global heritage fund begun working atlas studio, beijing-based design studio, set weaving dyeing co-op dali. aim twofold: create opportunities work closer home persuade young dong women learn traditions.“for long time, guizhou known one strongest cultural resources ethnic minority villages,” said kuanghan li, china program director global heritage fund. “now rural villages hot topic china.”tourism yet take dali, though may matter time. unlike many villages china preservation undertaken heavy hand, village feel untouched oasis, due part remote location.even today, accessible narrow mountain road winds lush bamboo forests descending valley sloping gray-tiled rooftops huddle closely together.a recent visit village found hundred residents hard work. nearly every family grows rice indigo, ready harvest.in busy autumn mornings, dong women wake first. roosters still asleep sky dark yang xiukui stepped outside start day’s work. folded long length indigo cloth lay onto flat stone surface.using heavy wooden mallet, ms. yang, 55, began pound fabric. thump, cloth grew brighter, acquiring shiny gloss. luster — achieved application cowhide extract and, times, egg whites — prized dong women. wear handmade indigo clothes holidays festivals, women inspect sheen one another’s handiwork spirit friendly competition.as ms. yang worked, chorus roosters joined plinking mallets awaken village. sleepy children stumbled school along stone-paved paths older people kibitzed doorsteps traditional wooden homes.ms. yang brought now-gleaming indigo cloth covered plastic tub corner still dark kitchen. removed lid, releasing pungent, fermented odor. inside dark blue, frothy liquid.almost every dong woman 40 plastic tub hold indigo dye bath. tradition, placement tub within house crucial, must made according principles feng shui, ancient practice arranging objects improve one’s luck.one year, ms. yang said, placed tub another part house, realizing bad feng shui. dye — made mixture indigo leaves, rice alcohol, wild plants lye — ruined, said.dong women believe factors spoil dye. women pregnant menstruating, example, expected stay away. ms. li global heritage fund recounted one time became apparent dye bath ruined cloth wasn’t turning color.“all women looked around said, ‘o.k., pregnant?’” said.ms. yang plunged fabric dye bath, making sure soak section thoroughly. several rounds soaking drip-drying later, hung heavy cloth wooden pole dry. quick meal chili fermented fish, sautéed vegetables rice, hopped onto back husband’s motorbike headed full day harvesting rice fields. 9 a.m.the next morning, ms. yang repeated entire process. total, takes dong women two weeks color single bolt cloth desired rich shade indigo.“they say whoever darkest stains hands makes best cloth,” ms. yang said proudly, held purple-streaked hands.
self-driving cars go learn phoenix — three weeks new job arizona’s governor, doug ducey made move silicon valley paved way state become driverless car utopia.it january 2015 phoenix area host super bowl. mr. ducey learned local regulator planning sting lyft uber drivers shut ride-hailing services operating illegally. mr. ducey, republican former chief executive ice cream chain cold stone creamery, furious.“it exact opposite message sending,” mr. ducey said interview. “we needed message uber, lyft entrepreneurs silicon valley arizona open new ideas.” state slogan, added, would include words “open business.”mr. ducey fired regulator hatched idea going ride-hailing drivers shut entire agency, department weights measures. april 2015, arizona legalized ride-sharing.arizona since built upon governor’s action become favored partner tech industry, turning live laboratory self-driving vehicles. past two years, arizona deliberately cultivated rules-free environment driverless cars, unlike dozens states enacted autonomous vehicle regulations safety, taxes insurance.arizona took anything-goes approach federal regulators delayed formulating overarching set self-driving car standards, leaving gap states. federal government poised create first law autonomous vehicles; law, echoes arizona’s stance, would let hundreds thousands deployed within years would restrict states putting hurdles industry.“we wild west phase autonomous vehicles, companies looking state least amount sheriffing going on,” said henry jasny, senior vice president advocates highway auto safety, nonprofit based washington.the payoff arizona tech boom, dozens autonomous vehicle companies flocking set operations. every day, waymo, driverless car business owned google’s corporate parent alphabet, well uber, lyft, general motors intel deploy hundreds cars drive streets phoenix, sprawling metropolis 1.4 million people.some companies pushed boundaries conducting first-of-its-kind experiments state. waymo announced past week begun testing self-driving cars phoenix suburb chandler without employee wheel take emergency. then, driverless car trials human driver front seat, case. uber said also exploring similar tests, employees moving back seat.but arizona’s permissiveness drawn criticism safety advocates said companies much freedom conduct trials public roads. said car companies state officials solved questions privacy passengers, prevention cyberattacks autonomous cars, insure vehicles don’t driver.“it’s open season arizona drivers pedestrians,” said rosemary shahan, president consumers auto reliability safety, nonprofit pushed stronger state federal rules. “there complete utter vacuum safety.”arizona officials said public essentially protected basic rules require licensed driver somewhere driverless car. added planned take back seat experts comes rule-making. state insurance regulator, example, said would wait insurance industry guide regulators liability policies driverless cars, amid questions responsible crash car isn’t driven human.“we shouldn’t getting way prescribing regulations really don’t know equipment perform,” said john halikowski, director arizona department transportation.the state’s hands-off approach already tested. march, arizona experienced first crash involving driverless car, human-driven vehicle collided self-driving uber phoenix suburb tempe. case quickly resolved police said uber’s car fault, arizona officials acknowledged thought legal scenarios autonomous car accidents.“we embrace innovation,” said mark mitchell, mayor tempe. “but things we’ll look moving forward.”mr. ducey, native ohio came arizona college stayed, elected governor 2014 pro-business innovation platform. quickly lifted restrictions medical testing companies like theranos, silicon valley company later faced scrutiny business practices. also touted apple’s decision build $2 billion data center state.“we beat california every metric; lower taxes, less regulations, cost living, quality life,” said several months became governor.in early 2015, mr. ducey’s shutdown sting operation would hit uber lyft immediate effect. days decision, companies made aware staff, lyft uber executives called governor thank him.at time, uber already small operation arizona mapping roads. two months later, company announced would open center phoenix customer driver support 300 employees.by august 2015, mr. ducey taking first steps driverless vehicles. month, signed executive order supporting autonomous cars. order, driverless car could arizona roads long passenger license car basic liability insurance plan.mr. ducey also set “self-driving vehicle oversight committee” comprised transportation, public safety, insurance regulators advise “how best advance testing operation self-driving vehicles public roads.” group intended create new rules.and mr. ducey became pitchman.early last year global economic forum georgia coast, mr. ducey said approached eric schmidt, chairman alphabet, business card talking points state’s embrace self-driving automakers. shortly thereafter, waymo scoped chandler begin autonomous car tests.chandler’s officials sealed deal promises stay way. “we don’t think it’s role engaged regulation,” said micah miranda, chandler’s director economic development.waymo opened operations chandler august 2016, hiring dozens local test drivers. company hosted grand opening mr. ducey chandler’s mayor, held several community events win public.“the enthusiasm new tech public governor ducey makes arizona place innovation thrive companies like set roots,” said waymo.mr. ducey also traveled silicon valley visit driverless car companies investors. late 2016, stopped andreessen horowitz, venture capital firm menlo park, calif., invested companies including lyft, working self-driving technology. there, mr. ducey found inquisitive audience state’s regulation-free policy self-driving cars.“although washington gets much attention, lot real action tech policy taking place state local level,” said ted ullyot, andreessen horowitz partner attended meeting. “governor ducey key pro-innovation leader, making arizona highly welcoming environment autonomous vehicles emerging technologies.”arizona particularly stood states. absence federal rules, 33 states created laws regulations around new technology. many taking legislation-heavy approach.in california, google, uber, gm, ford fought lawmakers self-driving rules. one rule required carmakers report number times driverless car switched autonomous mode human-driven mode, irked automakers said statistics give misleading impression safety.last december, uber clashed california regulators tested self-driving cars san francisco without permission california department motor vehicles. company quickly ordered shut trials.uber’s executives called mr. ducey.“we responded saying weren’t going hassle them,” mr. ducey said uber. “i’d remiss didn’t thank partner growing arizona economy, jerry brown,” democratic governor california.days later, uber loaded fleet driverless sport utility vehicles onto semi trucks headed tempe. company several dozen driverless cars garage size two football fields, plans add cars.“governor ducey’s prioritization sharing economy made grand canyon state ideal environment self-driving pilot,” uber said.under mr. ducey, driverless car experiments arizona multiplied last year.uber’s self-driving volvo suvs pick customers around tempe daily basis. waymo dispatched 100 chrysler self-driving minivans chauffeur select families residents part closely guarded trial; company plans expand 600 vehicles end year, majority chandler. dozens vehicles gm, ford, intel, lyft also covering thousands miles day flat sun-drenched roads around phoenix.some residents ambivalent. groups representing blind enthusiastic supporters driverless cars, could give members independence. others like idea tech-related jobs coming state. cautious.“i’m fence,” said jake guadarrama, 22, phoenix area resident. “what battery died car goes control? take way work force?”those questions academic. already, incorporation driverless cars human-driven traffic run problems.around dusk march 24, example, alexandra cole, tempe resident, inched 2008 honda crv busy suburban intersection city. five seconds left pedestrian crossing signal cars coming toward two closest lanes, began left turn.she see uber’s self-driving volvo suv darting yellow light furthest lane toward her. cars collided. uber’s vehicle flipped onto side crashed two cars waiting traffic.the crash — arizona’s first driverless vehicle — soon resolved. injuries police said ms. cole, uber’s car, blame failing yield left turn.but happened accident revealed system unprepared computer-operated vehicles. mr. ducey, tempe officials state transportation regulators get briefed collision. self-driving task force set governor, met twice two years, also review incident.uber sent wrecked vehicle pittsburgh-based autonomous vehicle center, national highway transportation safety administration officials visited investigate. n.h.t.s.a. said could comment investigation still progress. ms. cole insurance company declined comment.if crash turned criminal case, police would likely asked data self-driving cars. carmakers refused, might sought warrants data — practice put federal bureau investigation apple fierce battle last year related unlocking iphone used suspect mass shooting. waymo uber said policies comply local laws wherever operate.insurance would also question, debate takes responsibility driverless car crash — company third-party software parts makers passenger license — since driver.“the insurance companies need figure insure this,” said stephen briggs, spokesman arizona’s department insurance. arizona hasn’t changed minimum insurance liability rules self-driving car trials. “the government doesn’t resources this.”angel carbajal, tempe’s assistant chief police, acknowledged many unknowns. “this new, isn’t lot legislation yet explains respond motor vehicle collisions involving autonomous vehicles,” said.for mr. ducey, none problem. said crash handled properly even driverless technology fully ready, state’s bet autonomous vehicles continue.“these cultural opportunities arizona seen place live, work play,” said.
plugging gig economy, home headset durham, n.c. — gathering private dining room mexican restaurant fervent energy megachurch service, maybe above-average “oprah” episode — mix revival-style confession extravagant empathy. souls won.“by end day, kelly’s going agent,” group’s square-jawed leader said. “kelly went process ago, life happens, she’s back. commitment made earlier, looked right eyes told she’s going agent.”paradise, pilgrims, lies one end phone line.the company behind spectacle, liveops, invited several dozen freelance call-center agents so-called road show. may answered customer-service calls home depot aaa. among 100,000 agents work independent contractors on-demand platforms like one liveops operates, uses big data, algorithms gamelike techniques match agents clients. uber cars, liveops call centers.the agents part tectonic shift jobs structured. companies pushing work onto freelancers, temps, contractors franchisees quest ever nimble profit-making machine. one reason job category seemingly headed offshore forever — customer service representatives — thriving call centers home offices across united states, supporting roughly three million workers.while critics arrangement cite rising insecurity, liveops’ star agents — like emmett jones chicago, knows rivals primarily numbers leader board — say opportunity transformative.the earnest gratitude agents assembled here, far raleigh-durham airport, affirmed that. them, liveops sustaining force, way earn living present home. driven hours attend. many brought friends family members considering joining “liveops nation,” too.there icebreakers (“liveops nation bingo”). gift-card raffles (“$150?” chief executive quipped. “who approved things?”). free enchiladas. everyone invited schmooze.“john, heard story got us pretty great,” said master ceremonies, impossibly sunny woman named tara. “would mind telling people?”when mic came john, former insurance claims adjuster gray beard several earrings, sense imminent revelation.“i working another glass box near six years,” began. “i reached point either jump roof walk front door.” agents laughed knowingly.he continued: “my commute walk hall, close bedroom door behind me.” laughter.then john’s voice softened: “this good, good. get paid i’m working, instead souring get paid 40 hours work more. so, i’m here.”“awesome,” tara said, applause drowning out. “i feel like john’s story mimics lot hear people.”according greg hanover, longtime liveops official became chief executive summer, company’s goal make agents feel they’re part movement, earning wage.“where want mary kay done, multilevel marketing companies,” mr. hanover said, referring cosmetics distributor independent sales force. “the direction need head community within liveops nation agents happy, satisfied purpose meaning there, they’re telling story.”it’s ambition feels almost radical compared uber, whose best-known exercise worker outreach video former chief executive berating driver. heartening discover on-demand work could financially viable emotionally fulfilling.that is, began speak mr. jones liveops competitors. talk them, detect kind darwinian struggle behind facade community self-actualization. start wonder: really thing righteous gig-economy job, even company apparently well intentioned liveops? something nature gig work that’s inescapably dehumanizing?mr. jones, lives chicago, top rated liveops agent insurer called trustage much year.an at&t technician decades, decided needed home long wife diagnosed vertigo 2008. “i can’t work worried she’s doing,” said.a years later, daughter told friend worked liveops, eager sign — refused send required voice test close perfect. “i must voice test four five times,” said. “i wanted make sure gave right tone looking for.”as liveops agent, mr. jones sells life policies callers, often seen television commercial trustage insurance. estimates works roughly 40 hours week, beginning around 8 mornings, makes $20 hour. valued worker trustage invited headquarters earlier year two-day visit elite group agents, executives pumped insights increase sales.roughly two decades ago, liveops competitors typically connected callers psychic hotlines, cases less reputable services. businesses frequent spikes call volume, making helpful on-demand work force could abruptly ramped up.“the thing people interested abandonment rate” — is, number people would hang frustration kept hold — said kim houlne, chief executive liveops rival called working solutions, founded 1996.the call center industry took hit 2001 recession, cost consciousness unleashed wave outsourcing india. within 10 years, many companies decided practice, known offshoring, oversold. savings wages often wiped lost business enraged customers, preferred communicate native english speakers.“people don’t feel comfortable,” ms. houlne said, alluding overseas agents.by early part decade, quality fashion. enormous amounts data companies like liveops working solutions collect allowed connect callers best possible agent remarkable precision, allowing big clients avoid overhead physical call center full-time workers.today, addition sales calls, liveops agents handle calls people trying file insurance claims, need roadside assistance, even medical financial issues relating prescription drugs. agents must obtain certification handle calls, sometimes takes weeks online coursework.liveops goes great lengths attend needs, addressing technical-support issues, even answering agents’ emails chief executive within 24 hours.mr. jones, like many fellow agents, thinks helping others need. said many families gather around table loved one died discuss burial. deceased relative insurance, said, “a lot times table going clear.” if, hand, even $2,000 life insurance — minimum trustage sells — “the family members inclined say, ‘he could, let see could help out.’ end $5,000 $6,000. decent burial rather none all.”still, undeniably brass-tacks quality work. shortly hung up, turned attention assignment due afternoon, receive calls mr. jones’s number. finally answered, apologized interrupting me, came point. “i question you,” said. “do life insurance?”like uber, liveops expends considerable effort calculating demand agents. example, auto insurance company running commercial espn, liveops ask company’s media buyer — is, intermediary placed ad — predict many calls ad likely generate. liveops adjust prediction, using data showing many calls similar ads produced similar audiences comparable time year.and like uber, liveops focuses “utilization” — liveops case, percentage working agents actually call. depending client, liveops strives rates 65 percent 75 percent. lower agents, make money they’re call, complain they’re busy enough. significantly higher system vulnerable sudden increase demand could tie phone lines keep callers waiting.liveops asks agents schedule half-hour blocks, known “commits,” upcoming week. company expects demand higher number commits, sends agents message urging sign up. (uber something similar, except without formal scheduling.) sometimes even offer financial incentives, like bump rate earned minute they’re call, raffle-type scheme people accumulate tickets giveaway ipad cruise.again like uber, liveops relentlessly tests effectiveness tools. referring financial incentives, jon brown, liveops senior director client services, said, “we’ve zeroed exactly need agent go 10 15 commits, 15 commits 20 commits. know price point is, drives behavior.”and performance metrics. liveops agents rated according called key performance indicators, which, depending customer, include number sales make, success upselling customers, whether caller would recommend service based interaction.liveops makes clear agents’ ability earn money closely tied performance. “you’ve heard term meritocracy?” said liveops official named aimee matolka north carolina event. “when call comes in, routes best agent. yes, router smart. guys want agent, know do. otherwise wouldn’t here.”it allows agents track rankings obsessively internal leader boards. (liveops officials say pressures job preoccupy agents, much time invest.)“i lost no. 1 spot, i’m no. 2,” mr. jones said early august, acknowledging checks ranking frequently. “i thought researching find — always want know who’s competition — said leave it.”he added: “i’m competitive person. toggle back forth. see jump back in, work harder. want spot back.”my flight bangor, me., due 9 p.m., apparently sensing unease north country, firefighter seated next asked far drive landed. “about three hours north,” confessed. “watch moose,” said. assured i’d driven around deer before. stopped short: hit deer, you’ll kill them, said. hit moose, they’ll kill you.i found troy carter, agent recently surpassed emmett jones, home fort fairfield next day, wearing jeans, button-down short-sleeve shirt, new england patriots hat. shoes feet, white socks.like mr. jones, mr. carter said liveops blessing, allowing earn living part maine remote cellphone carrier welcomed canada shortly pulled driveway.when told mr. carter touch top competitor, quickly pulled latest monthly rankings liveops agents selling trustage insurance. pointed mr. jones, recognized identification number, 141806, sales — 87 82 — far fewer paid sales, charged time purchase rather invoice.“the real thing paid application rate — want around 95 percent,” mr. carter said. “he 87 sales, 65 percent paid, compared 94 percent.” this, explained, enjoyed right call top agent month.mr. carter might call serial entrepreneur. started art supply website folded within months, penny auction site called bid tree foundered lack marketing budget.he sees liveops, spends 40 50 hours per week, piece entrepreneurial efforts. fact, something family business. wife, lori, handles incoming calls he’s busy customers. “i’m housewife/secretary/receptionist,” said. even mr. carter’s 9-year-old son, logan, plays role. “at nighttime, says last part prayer based many sales today,” mr. carter said. “if lot sales, he’ll pray, ‘dear lord, help dad get amount sales tomorrow.’”though liveops agents work script, mr. carter, like mr. jones, adds flourishes. asking caller’s gender, required do, say, “now already know answer question, please confirm you’re male female.” upon receiving answer, pause momentarily saying, “i told already knew answer,” break laugh.he might make identical joke, identical timing, dozens times workday. “it’s like comedian little pause joke,” told me. “it relaxes right off.”even touches, results vary widely. two days earlier, mr. carter made seven sales, shy record. day turned up, managed one. said callers impression could receive $25,000 insurance $9.95 per month — commercial mentions figures — begged mr. carter told premiums would substantially higher.mr. carter done research comport himself, including watching instructional youtube video former stockbroker subject movie “the wolf wall street.” believes key come alpha presence. “the one asks questions one control,” said. “if ask questions — ‘how doing?’ — i’ll come back, ‘the question doing?’ phone call, much make it.”but day repeatedly ran limits powers. even remained interested 10 15 minutes painstaking back-and-forth often demurred mr. carter asked payment information. “this one guy outside wheelchair,” mr. carter said caller couldn’t produce credit card. “he didn’t want go get it. said, ‘i’m fine waiting,’ can’t push him.”these setbacks seem make mr. carter focus more. one point, made swiping motion face headset index finger middle finger. “they recommend keep microphone two fingers away,” said. “i’m always — checking it’s two fingers. i’ll rest life.”it seemed, all, like grueling way make slightly $30,000 mr. carter estimates takes taxes. “the good thing take hours off,” lori told me. “but lose spot. it’s always fight top.”i reminded alec baldwin monologue movie “glengarry glen ross,” except prize sales wouldn’t cadillac, would set steak knives, liveops analytics team calculated agents would give nearly much effort prize worth small fraction cost.of course, unlike salesmen movie, liveops agents can’t really fired — third prize — weren’t employees begin with.a later, mr. carter described recent initiative agents promised bonus 95 percent collective sales paid front. “i knew wasn’t going work soon said it,” told me, handful agents low paid rates could ruin everyone else’s chances.“they pullover sweatshirt top two,” added, brightening. “i second, that’s coming.”
trans-pacific trade partners moving on, without u.s. hong kong — president trump shook world economic order year pulling united states major international trade pact raising fundamental questions global role.today, world moving without it.a group 11 countries announced saturday committed resurrecting sweeping multinational trade agreement, trans-pacific partnership, without united states. new deal, would signed ratified country, would include major united states allies like japan, canada mexico. collectively, account sixth global trade.the agreement “serve foundation building broader free-trade area” across asia, taro kono, japan’s foreign minister, said statement.pointedly, potential members called comprehensive progressive agreement trans-pacific partnership came early agreement broad outline deal many leaders meeting mr. trump vietnam — potential member new trading group.some details new deal, including rules would phased in, still need determined, prospective member states like canada raised last-minute concerns. new deal could announced soon early next year.other countries slowly surely making progress sweeping trade deals, without participation united states. china negotiating potential deal 16 asia-pacific countries, including japan, india south korea. european union japan hope strike separate trade pacts group south american countries, brazil argentina among them.from tough talk china (“they took jobs”) casting doubt decades-old north american free trade agreement (“the worst trade deal ever made”), mr. trump threatened lob grenade increasingly integrated global economic system.his administration questioned years efforts lower global trade barriers, arguing hurt american workers led big trade deficits. also means dealing nations one-on-one, rejecting regional global pacts predecessors pursued.but factors pushing rest world fill void left united states. china’s rise regional economic power driving nations either join join together counter it. fast development places like southeast asia means potential new markets kinds products. absence united states means potential opportunities others.“at point, administration may begin see strategic mistake dropping trade interest american workers,” said rufus yerxa, president national foreign trade council, lobbying group represents companies like walmart, ford microsoft.“we’ve got compete winner global markets — danger is, strategy divisive,” added.more worrying possibility trump administration ceding position global leader china, rising economic political influence region.“the u.s. lost leadership role,” said jayant menon, economist asian development bank. “and china quickly replacing it.”under new trans-pacific trade deal, members would enjoy tariff-free trade one another. would allow companies member countries faster better access markets american rivals.but still challenges ahead group, prospective member states meeting danang, vietnam, complete accord finer details new deal.“we pleased progress made towards possible agreement, still work done,” françois-philippe champagne, canada’s minister international trade, said statement. added canada would sign deal interests addressed.even without united states, deal would largest trade agreement history. intended increase protections intellectual property countries, opening markets free trade agricultural products digital services around region. also provisions improving working conditions, although debate likely results.in statement posted online, australian government said agreement principle demonstrated 11 countries’ “commitment open markets, combat protectionism advance regional economic integration.”the 11 countries working toward new agreement japan, australia, canada, mexico, singapore, malaysia, vietnam, chile, peru, new zealand brunei.mr. trump expressed support nation’s regional allies even rejects criticizes trade deals them. reiterated american support cooperation security stops japan south korea.in china, went way woo president xi jinping, going far suggest trade deficit united states fault past american administrations rather china itself.“i don’t blame china,” mr. trump said tweet friday morning shortly leaving vietnam.“the u.s. driving force, behind global economic order, also pursuing higher standards free trade securing provisions go way world trade organization obligations,” said stephen olson, former united states trade negotiator worked nafta. “if u.s. abdicates role, puts us uncharted territory,” added.in absence american leadership, japan driven new round talks. prime minister shinzo abe spoken countries working agreement ocean’s eleven, movie.japan’s long-term hope united states eventually return fold.“we go ahead make welcome united states back decide so,” said ichiro fujisaki, former japanese ambassador washington. completing deal now, said, “makes possibility u.s. coming back likely.”the new agreement crafted hope united states one day participate. provisions — among ones united states lobbied — could ultimately suspended, including copyright protection.given intensity mr. trump excoriated original deal, seems unlikely administration come back table.“it difficult administration backtrack,” said wendy cutler, former united states trade negotiator worked trans-pacific deal managing director washington office asia society policy institute.but countries like korea, philippines thailand expected join deal ratified, said ms. cutler.for members, pact could offer sense security time number politicians around world questioning impact trade globalization.speaking last week, prime minister malcolm turnbull australia said deal promised “greater transparency stronger rule law, world dangerously short both,” referring “siren songs populists, advocating protectionism.”“the t.p.p. creates rules road match new economic world living in,” mr. turnbull said.notably, trans-pacific pact includes mexico canada, loggerheads trump administration nafta. mr. trump raised prospect demise agreement, citing movement industrial jobs united states countries.“there genuine risk u.s. going disengage regional economic interaction,” said christopher nelson, editor nelson report, foreign policy trade newsletter. “and corporate standpoint, american companies disadvantaged competitively we’re feet playing game.”
uber driver brings time machine name next tiny photo uber driver looked familiar, face. him, one awkward (or interesting) ride ex-husband woman married ex-husband.wrapping business trip, standing outside hotel silicon valley. meeting ended sooner expected headed airport try catch earlier flight new york. since wasn’t rush, chosen shared ride feature.i two minutes decide whether cancel, car icon closing in.i kept reservation. knew him.what other, two people whose ex-spouses married? word must exist language, maybe french italian. twelve years ago marriages ended, several months later exes moved together. wife husband’s assistant, associate. work involved investing start-up companies latin america, traveled often, spouses often tagged along.back new york city area, regularly dinner other’s houses. knew children. time, moved connecticut town husband weekend house, meant saw even more. didn’t think much it, though friends told thought creepy.the divorce shattered me. husband met near end college shared huge circle friends. attracted fancy suburban background, step scrappier family first graduate college. lived hong kong, saw angkor wat easter island.at first, opposite natures felt complementary — curiosity, need familiar. biggest difference, thought, wanted children didn’t. weren’t going them, wanted everything else: spontaneity adventure. yet ready settle down. suburbia, less.we started unraveling. we’d children, would reason fight marriage. time, said child issue undoing, knew that. couldn’t make past 10 years, initial attraction often starts sliding kinds marital love. turned others emotional support.time really thing heals wound like divorce. can’t remember stopped thinking ex every day, realized — uber driver wound way traffic toward — ages since whole mess ruled life. conjure ex’s face smell voice. don’t recall felt like wake next body.over past 12 years, barely thought guy whose face phone. emailed separated, looking commiseration help divorce case. consumed pain reply.when car pulled up, saw big, familiar smile windshield. sprang said, “i feeling you!”after long embrace, got car, passenger seat instead back. oddly comfortable sitting next him. canceled ride share passenger went cafe, sat nearly two hours, chattering.we whipped phones share photos. weddings. homes. trips. new wife gaggle stepchildren him. new husband french bulldog me. full, happy lives. least that’s photos suggested.it made wonder photos previous marriages would suggested lives. feel contented appeared feel now? would others able see something shattering behind smiles?and that’s turned subject cut deeply us both, though can’t remember asked first: exes physically involved splits? didn’t know, neither i, though didn’t think had, least “technically.”most startling, though, longer mattered — either us. once-scalding question lost potency. took seeing talking make realize that.we quickly moved on. knew mother best friend wanted updates. thrilled hear children promising young adults, details could gotten ex ever thought ask occasional emails trade. boys would remember stepfather’s ex-wife.“he’s standup guy stepfather,” uber driver said.i assumed was, even though caused terrible pain hadn’t wanted children marriage.“they meant other,” said nearly unison, rattling quirks made compatible agreeing better new couplings.i new love 12 years, almost exactly long ex. two years ago traveled italy. packed, couldn’t help remembering another trip italy previous life, trip 10th anniversary marked beginning end. first night positano, lost footing cobblestone streets knew broken something.a local doctor confirmed gave shot something alcoholic. next day flew home, cutting trip short. marriage never felt same. foot never felt either. recently, noticed toes don’t feel numb anymore.when met man husband, 39 46; window children nearly closed. knew didn’t want them, yet couldn’t pull away. started admit maybe reason chose men skittish fatherhood. easy assign decision someone else.i still mourn loss, increasingly i’m peace it. rather going deep key relationships, ever-expanding collection people life — extended family, younger friends, mentors ages. gratifying work, volunteering time read, travel, learn. none came wave photos, looking made see it.my uber driver, whose tie still yearns name — perhaps ex-once-removed? — wanted make sure didn’t miss flight. returned car headed airport, hugged promised keep touch.i immediately called husband. rarely talk travel, preferring text email. come home flowers little surprise near mail. taken red-eye, jump bed man pooch gotten real chance miss.this time couldn’t hold in. “you’ll never believe uber driver was!” said. spilled whole story. long, nearly missed flight.my husband rapt, wanting every detail, even though would see hours. glad because, years, hadn’t wanted hear first marriage, studiously avoiding subject. changed too, far away.“that could scene movie,” said.in movie version, though, would fling ex-once-removed. real life, got closure unexpected source. realized connections distance, along passage time, offer telling reflections reminder marriages unravel instant. could ensure new life wouldn’t break apart way last one had?months later, protest uber’s business practices, deleted app, twinge regret. strange way, uber helped sort feelings significant men life moved current relationship honest place. knew app that?
myth artistic genius excuses abuse women away idea “separating art artist”?whenever creative type (usually man) accused mistreating people (usually women), call arises prevent pesky biographical details sneaking assessments artist’s work. hollywood players accused sexual harassment worse — harvey weinstein, james toback, kevin spacey louis c.k., name ever-expanding list — never seemed interested separating art misdeeds. we’re learning every day entertainment industry shaped abuses power. it’s time consider art been, too.these men stand accused using creative positions offend — turning film sets hunting grounds; grooming young victims acting classes; luring female colleagues close pretext networking, trap uninvited sexual situations. performances watch onscreen shaped actions. offenses affected paths artists, determining rise prominence harassed shamed work. turn, critical acclaim economic clout afforded projects worked insulate consequences behavior.this idea assessing artist’s work light biography is, critics, blasphemous. roman polanski’s 2009 arrest inspired new york times round table whether ought “separate work artists artists themselves, despite evidence reprehensible even criminal behavior.” stands useful artifact prevailing attitude question early 21st century. screenwriter critic jay parini wrote, “being artist absolutely nothing — nothing — one’s personal behavior.” mark anthony neal, african-american studies scholar duke university, put way: “let art stand itself, men stand judgment, never twain shall meet.”but mr. polanski stood charged inviting 13-year-old girl jack nicholson’s hot tub pretext photographing model, drugging raping her. twain met.a proclivity reprehensible acts built right mythos artistic genius — designation rarely extended women. historian martin jay calls “the aesthetic alibi”: art excuses crime. mr. jay writes 19th century, artistic genius “was often construed unbound nonaesthetic considerations — cognitive, ethical, whatever.” often ethical lapses afforded artists concerned mistreatment women.that tradition lives today. recently, new yorker film critic richard brody responded sexual assault accusations mr. weinstein suggesting outside information filmmakers “can illuminating,” “better film is, likelier biography fills details regarding already apparent cleareyed viewing.” that’s bizarre calculation dismisses discussions bad deeds based talent person performing them. journalist gay talese blunter dismissal anthony rapp, “rent” star accused kevin spacey preying 14. “i hate actor ruined guy’s career,” said.directors, meanwhile, justified mistreatment plain resentment women gritty artistic choice. bernardo bertolucci, director “last tango paris,” boasted chose fully inform lead actress, maria schneider, details film’s infamous butter scene “wanted reaction girl, actress.” (“i felt humiliated honest, felt little raped,” said experience.) director lars von trier whipped misogyny persona, delighting riling actresses selling stories magazines kicky evidence transgressive brilliance. auteur, celebrated tightly controlling aspects filmmaking, seems enhance reputation flaunting control women.meanwhile, entertainment industry seems quite interested conflating art artist long helps sell movie tickets. (if hollywood weren’t invested selling people behind art, oscars wouldn’t televised.) stars power brokers reflexively praised societal contributions. even they’ve accused harassment, hollywood men attempted fend charges trotting good deeds. mr. spacey cynically chose moment announce gay bid spin harrowing assault tale heartwarming coming-out one. mr. weinstein countered accusations dozens women mentioning generous contributions scholarship fund female directors. bill cosby happy confuse art personal life bellowed old fat albert catchphrase — “hey, hey hey!” — exited courtroom past summer trial sexual assault.louis c.k., one respected celebrated comedians today, built public persona simultaneously capitalizes praise afforded provocative auteur hollywood do-gooder. he’s hailed thoughtful feminist figure, comic capable landing unexpected jokes navigating politically correct positions issues day. memorable bit 2013 hbo comedy special, “oh god,” asks: “how women still go guys consider fact greater threat women men? we’re no. 1 threat women!” stand-up routine obsessed masturbation also infused insights power consent, situating kind ethical pervert, schlubby male-ally version fashionable sex-positive feminist.at time, he’s built alternative-world versions — fx show “louie” — he’s tried identities aging creep, attempted rapist exhibitionist masturbator. he’s also made character victim similar crimes: louie forced perform oral sex date anally penetrated friend pamela screams protest. case, recovers easily violation — pamela shrugs louie tries drag her, kicking screaming, bed him. episodes garnered acclaim canny twists gender politics, critical reception clearly vaulted engagement current debates around consent.these scenes play differently. looked like creative provocations read like justifications moral universe women complicit sexual violation men are, sex begins force easily gives way mutual desire.men like louis c.k. may creators art, also destroyers it. crushed ambition women and, cases, young men — boys — industry, robbing opportunities. comedians dana min goodman julia wolov said louis c.k. cornered masturbated front u.s. comedy arts festival 2002, feared speaking incident could risk careers. louis c.k. felt free flaunt behavior throughout comedy — one scene “louie,” pamela begs start masturbating front — women silenced. took advantage them, took ownership experience.another performer, abby schachner, said inappropriate run-in louis c.k. discouraged pursuing comedy altogether. (as put apology released friday: “the power women admired me. wielded power irresponsibly.”) assessments men’s contributions art form ought informed avenues closed artists.perhaps, instead considering possibility separating art artist, it’s instructive think impossibility separating artist industry. louis c.k. comedian director also gatekeeper tastemaker, whose reach stretched far beyond idiosyncratic projects. film art also business, though one lack human-resources infrastructure corporate america. one makes clearer mr. weinstein, stands accused corrupting artistic process take advantage women even strong-armed films oscar gold.those offended opportunities artists lost recent weeks know casting choices feel like artistic decisions almost always economic ones. ridley scott chose cut mr. spacey already completed film “all money world” reshoot scenes christopher plummer, associated press reported mr. plummer actually mr. scott’s first choice role. studio, however, demanded bigger name — big name became big liability.the habit treating artists transcendent creators rather players economic system serves protect typical workplace expectations. way sneaker technology company tries distract consumer vile production processes churning covetable products, hollywood serves spectacles seek conceal conditions they’re made.many works make consumer complicit perspective abuser. even casual objectification of, say, brett ratner’s “rush hour” series — often written harmless fantasy — constructed elevate men’s desires women’s lives. scenes leveraged directors producers looking opportunities place actresses vulnerable positions, james toback — director psychosexual films “two guys girl” — instructed selma blair undress alone hotel room pretext auditioning role.what people? seems uncontroversial offenders remain positions power ought unseated prevent abuses. art, begin consider work made assessment it.this conversation often framed, unhelpfully, either-or: whose work support, whose discard forever? hbo cut ties louis c.k. thursday, dropping coming benefit show removing comedy specials on-demand service. first move seems wise, second feels perhaps counterproductive. louis c.k.’s comedy specials artifacts comedic artistry self-justifying persona. viewers may want see louis c.k.’s face again, others could find illumination watching work new eye.none say it’s never valuable consider piece art terms, biographical details necessarily make illuminating connections. many personal lives simply boring, works well-meaning politics bad. (see: keith urban’s new male-ally anthem, “female.”) insistence two always separated feels suspect. advocate worry much biography spoil appreciation art. women marginalized audiences already accustomed managing cognitive dissonance finding meaning art ignores us, worse.drawing connections art abuse actually help us see works clearly, understand complexity, connect real lives experiences — even experiences negative. light, aspects work seem impressive. knowledge ms. blair lupita nyong’o weathered harassment careers makes performances even extraordinary. piece art truly spoiled understanding conditions made, perhaps artist quite exceptional thought.
president trump finds tv niche softball interviews “you came job fighting like hell,” lou dobbs said president trump, one many compliments offered recent fox business interview. “and fighting like hell every day.”fact check: depends. sure, mr. trump plays pugilist twitter, n.f.l. players, legislators whatever news show happens watching time. comes tv sit-downs, battler chief prefers pillow fights.after all, grapple network news anchor chat mike huckabee, father press secretary? oct. 7 premiere show christian-oriented trinity broadcasting network, mr. huckabee hit president humdinger questions “does sometimes bother [the first lady] fantastic approval ratings?”why go way aggravation sean hannity sit front crowd pennsylvania rally warm-up act? “is going win pennsylvania 2020, too?” mr. hannity asked cheering crowd, political-interview equivalent “hello, cleveland!”previous presidents including barack obama george w. bush media strategies, focusing local television seeking friendly patty-cake sessions sympathetic questioners, along submitting challenging interviews. mr. trump taken questions various outlets impromptu press availabilities. comes scheduled tv sitdowns, nearly half year mr. trump given interviews almost exclusively friendly opinion hosts conservative media outlets.the result lovefests courtier-like session mr. dobbs, didn’t much ask questions open mouth let rose petals fall out. “president trump,” introduced segment, “intends restore revive fate fortunes middle class americans aspire it.”even within fox news, fills mr. trump’s dvr hours daily pep talks, chooses cozier digs. dropped first week fox’s “the ingraham angle,” laura ingraham, spoke nominating convention. he’s scarce straight-news-oriented shows bret baier chris wallace.the last time mr. trump sat tv interview outside comfort zone may, nbc’s lester holt. volunteered mind-set deciding fire f.b.i. director, james b. comey, leading probe russian election interference. president said himself, recounted, “‘you know, russia thing trump russia made-up story.’”there danger mr. trump’s safe space. also means he’s reaching anyone beyond base — strategy that, republican drubbing off-year elections suggests, limits.for die-hard fans, mr. trump sticks greatest hits: media “fake” (“one greatest terms i’ve come with,” told mr. huckabee); we’re going build wall; said couldn’t get 270 electoral votes, got 306. (ultimately 304.) he’s speaking audience isn’t watching see news made questions answered hear, again: won.indeed, mr. trump’s interviews boosters hardly make news except accident, defended lag diplomatic hiring ms. ingraham saying, “i’m one matters.”to understand mr. trump president, remember celebrity first, still uses media like celebrity does. first remark ms. ingraham republican tax bill “we’ve gotten really great reviews,” plugging new movie “the tonight show.” repeatedly gave mr. hannity highest honor: praising nielsen ratings.in mr. trump’s first celebrity phase, brass-plated capitalist cartoon ’80s ’90s, media gadfly. chased cameras, planted name tabloids exchanged locker-room talk howard stern. point, then, outrageous, stir pot. thing bad attention.this approach candidate trump used, keeping cnn “morning joe” speed dial, taking advantage billions dollars free media ensure protagonist election. while, 2015 2016, freely available tv, proving could shoot mouth fifth avenue studio still lose voters.mr. trump’s second celebrity era host, star grand prize “the apprentice.” there, editors imposed linear arc vagabond sentences, gave coherence impulsive decisions. “the apprentice” vested interest plumping — best show, needed make best businessman. styled appear successful, decisive, wise, desired obeyed.now, president, mr. trump delegated job reality producer friendly media outlets. interviewers would challenge press details, chosen hosts clarifying offer talking points couched questions. “are getting credit economic revival?” ms. ingraham asked.above all, offer affirmation, mr. trump basks like first warming light creation. pennsylvania interview oct. 11, mr. hannity engaged home-team crowd hosting live “apprentice” finale. think mr. trump, asked? (yay!) congress? (boo!) media? (booooo!)it’s cheering crowd, one suspects, really driving dynamic here. point delicate meringue questions simply avoid challenging president. it’s avoid challenging audience.these interviews reciprocal exchange closed circle. base gets cheer leader boo haters. interviewers get prove loyalty, presenting official trump-endorsed products.and president gets end exchange nodding smiling, like someone knows gotten better part deal.
louis c.k. responds accusations: ‘these stories true’ louis c.k. friday released statement response report published thursday new york times several women stepped forward discuss experiences committed acts sexual misconduct. statement, louis c.k. said, “these stories true.”[louis c.k. admits misconduct media companies cut ties]the complete statement louis c.k. appears below:i want address stories told new york times five women named abby, rebecca, dana, julia felt able name one not.these stories true. time, said o.k. never showed woman dick without asking first, also true. learned later life, late, power another person, asking look dick isn’t question. it’s predicament them. power women admired me. wielded power irresponsibly. remorseful actions. i’ve tried learn them. run them. i’m aware extent impact actions. learned yesterday extent left women admired feeling badly cautious around men would never put position. also took advantage fact widely admired community, disabled sharing story brought hardship tried people look didn’t want hear it. didn’t think position allowed think it. nothing forgive for. reconcile am. nothing compared task left with. wish reacted admiration good example man given guidance comedian, including admired work.the hardest regret live you’ve done hurt someone else. hardly wrap head around scope hurt brought them. i’d remiss exclude hurt i’ve brought people work worked who’s professional personal lives impacted this, including projects currently production: cast crew better things, baskets, cops, one mississippi, love you, daddy. deeply regret brought negative attention manager dave becky tried mediate situation caused. i’ve brought anguish hardship people fx given much orchard took chance movie. every entity bet years. i’ve brought pain family, friends, children mother.i spent long lucky career talking saying anything want. step back take long time listen. thank reading.
it’s melania 2.0, mrs. trump iterates asia clues coats.melania trump emerged air force one japan leg husband’s grand tour asia nubby fendi knit coat looked like nothing much oversize grandpa cardigan, albeit one quasi-carnations pockets. contrast coat dresses suits worn first international trip — even tailored, constrained purple pucci coat wore leave white house days ago — practically banner held head announcing “things different time.”and indeed, were. trip ended friday, mrs. trump arrived alaska three-quarter-length beige prince wales ralph lauren puffer — let’s say again, “puffer” — coat orange turtleneck, leaving husband continue vietnam philippines own, notable shift visual messaging. defensive posture, much wardrobe seemed function armor, palpably softened up.weird sounds, look might termed “calculated cuddly.” visiting children cozying pandas — though photo ops outfits probably unrelated. six days every look preplanned advance, shoes. choices conspicuously conscious. case standing front one’s closet, scratching one’s head, thinking, “what feel like wearing today?”yet almost everyone missed change. worth noting.all posturing took place among designers year ago dressing mrs. trump seems gone way sean spicer. (what do? buys clothes.) complaints fact wore single asian designer asia. people complain also wore american brands. upset cost wardrobe, ran well tens thousands dollars, elitism implies.in part may much else going seem pointlessly distracting pay attention first lady wears. given limited exposure mrs. trump, carefully chosen calibrated public appearances, foreign trip provided rare concentrated opportunity understanding strategic thinking east wing, something west wing.she may also received less scrutiny … hope hicks, white house communications czar, tuxedo.or, fair, tuxedo worn floppy, dandified bow tie state dinner japan, accessorized breck girl blow fuchsia lipstick. menswear-inspired suit unexpected choice administration constantly sends message girls girls even power positions (see ivanka’s pink flounces, well ms. hicks’ usual chirpy dresses), internet started flapping didn’t stop even ms. hicks appeared generally deemed “baggy” (in words daily mail) fuchsia dress black blazer china state dinner — another “baggy” shirt way vietnam.though ms. hicks’ rise ranks marked clear propensity remaining background, time became story.perhaps simply gearing clearly moment public, interviewed return united states special counsel robert mueller part russia investigation. perhaps deliberate statement charge, brief anthony scaramucci moment (remember that?).either way, took spotlight completely sarah huckabee sanders eye-opening appearance pearls camo jacket tarmac south korea president trump’s aborted attempt make “surprise” visit dmz. combination, inadvertent (apparently ms. sanders borrowed jacket helicopter pilot cold), seemed almost perfect expression trump carrot stick sartorial form.it’s bad ms. hicks ms. sanders got much attention, lessons learned first lady managing issues perception approach job, choices made abroad.the list designers worn long, price tags high: fendi, alexander mcqueen, gucci, pucci, delpozo, dior, dolce & gabbana, christian louboutin, j. mendel, manolo blahnik, valentino, row, alaia (to name them). made nod, china, local aesthetics — least interpreted western eyes — gucci quasi-cheongsam faux-pink-fur finish sleeves, mandarin collar heavy stylized floral embroidery. rare concession sartorial symbolism (and good one, though perhaps inadvertently reveal myopic way administration sees country). mostly, stuck speaking silhouette. she’s going advocate industry overt way, she’s still using clothing ends.and overall imagery added something new.hemlines longer, necklines higher. flats. lot dresses. though mrs. trump wore two tailored black coats (dolce & gabbana mcqueen), tuxedo coat dress hervé pierre, exception, rather rule. skirts generally full, rather straight; sleeves fluted curved caped cap; cuts sort often labeled “generous” opposed “strict” “knife-edge.”the effect line longer harsh rigorously drawn, fluid.metaphor? subversion? maybe. given carefully choreographed costume pageantry official trips, one year election first propelled gilded security trump tower onto public stage, probably coincidence.
new fashion hub? eastern europe 2014, magda butrym, young warsaw-based stylist-turned-fashion designer, debuted 35-piece collection floral print dresses blouses, finished cutaway detailing hints leather hand crochet.“i always wanted launch label distinctly proudly polish,” said 32-year-old designer, largely self-taught. “i wanted create clothes inspired polish craftsmanship, manufactured poland, design studio here, too. also knew going easy.”she worked number small design businesses warsaw starting brand bears name. “there buyers here, fashion week. one tell things, need get foot door. taking big risk.”historically, poland, eastern european countries like hungary romania, never considered high fashion destinations. behind scenes, however, close ties industry existed decades, factories across region quietly producing garments accessories western european luxury houses louis vuitton hugo boss.over last decade, business moved elsewhere companies hunt cheaper labor lower production costs, leaving many skilled workers without jobs. now, new generation homegrown luxury entrepreneurs building businesses take advantage craftsmanship.in hungary, contemporary women’s wear brand aeron founded 2012 eszter aron, head designer, three friends, vivien laszloffy joining business chief executive 2015. label’s philosophy, ms. laszloffy said, brand “that people recognize know budapest, way people look acne know it’s sweden.”“people say odds build brand here, rather move paris milan, actually see advantage,” said. “everyone vision minds french italian brand looks like. one imagine brand budapest yet. seize space make own.”as privately owned company, sales figures released. two women said sales doubled annually last three years, majority growth coming unexpected region: asia.after struggling gain traction west, pair looked eastward, brand’s minimalist aesthetic techno-fabrics gained appreciation. 60 percent sales come region: japan, áeron stocked major department store isetan fashion chain tomorrowland, well string boutiques across south korea, mainland china hong kong.signing itochu, one japan’s largest trading companies, “catapulted us different league,” ms. laszloffy said. success abroad boosted morale home four factories brand makes leather, knitwear ready-to-wear styles.“the workers always worked foreign companies; part hungarian success story,” said. “furthermore, able drive hour two see collections produced produces them, rather plane ride away, huge advantage us small business. wouldn’t way.”proximity workshops factories prompted alexandru adam, romanian footwear designer, move bucharest studying london central st. martins royal college art designing shoes vivienne westwood. introducing accessories quality casual label, called metis, 2016, mr. adam initially intended divide time two cities. britain’s vote leave european union, prompted think again.“the environment u.k. becoming increasingly unstable makes hard plan future,” mr. adam said atelier bucharest, hiring craftsmen women worked factories produced leather goods western luxury brands. intends adopt see-now, buy-now approach sales, taking orders made shipped romania two three weeks.“most fashion designer friends brands considering alternative options u.k. e.u.,” said. “everyone produces outside u.k. materials come e.u. anyway, suppliers france, belgium, italy romania.“really, didn’t really makes financial sense us keep company london anymore,” added.across black sea romania lies georgia, another former soviet republic. fashion arts scene tbilisi, capital city, caught fashion industry spotlight, large part demna gvasalia, founder cult street-wear label vetements creative director balenciaga. emerging designers still based region reaping benefits, too.n-duo-concept, brainchild nina tsilosani natuka karkashadze, former fashion writer publications like elle ukraine harper’s bazaar kazakhstan, started life 2014 e-commerce website championing lesser-known brands. year later, unveiled clothing line name similarly offbeat aesthetic, produced tbilisi stocked number foreign boutiques. staff 15 looking outside investment.ms. butrym’s decision introduce brand warsaw paid off: beloved industry insiders 70,000 followers instagram, work stocked net-a-porter, selfridges moda operandi. given prices — start around $700 blouses $1,100 shirts — majority sales made outside poland, markets like united states britain. ms. butrym, works contract four factories poland, said plans leave homeland anytime soon.“it really exciting time working wouldn’t want anywhere else,” ms. butrym said, noting vogue poland expected debut early next year. “there energy optimism around young designers warsaw. people paying attention region way haven’t before.“eastern europe doesn’t brands heritage, everyone successful,” said. “but sense something really beginning region. like part it.”
review: violence pain others ‘three billboards’ one point “three billboards outside ebbing, missouri,” frances mcdormand tears movie open, showing broken heart looks like. happens uneasily intimate encounter character, tough number named mildred, ailing police chief, willoughby (woody harrelson). then, mildred seemed impervious pain. rented three billboards attacking failure solve daughter’s murder — one reads “raped dying” — wrapped hurt hasn’t seen anyone else’s. realizes sick willoughby is, looks first time. she’s staggered, you.the pain others haunts “three billboards,” least whenever writer-director martin mcdonagh lets it. playwright (“the pillowman”) turned filmmaker (“in bruges”) who’s somewhat subgenre unto himself, mr. mcdonagh pain artist whose tools include absurd violence, cruel laughs sucker punches. skated last movie, “seven psychopaths,” barely comedy pivots creatively stalled screenwriter. précis suggests, mr. mcdonagh doesn’t much say movie — bunny, stolen dogs, guys guns, good bad jokes — little said said fine performers grooving words larky nonsense.“three billboards” ambitious mr. mcdonagh’s earlier features. like older ones, loads gab, plenty guns spectacle men (mainly) behaving terribly. also restlessly, satisfyingly, shifts comedy tragedy — mcdonagh specialty — splattering blood along way. time, though, also given movie characters instead disposable contrivances, plot instead self-reflexive ideas storytelling rather diffuse overarching metaphor. mostly, freighted tragedy allows performers — primarily ms. mcdormand also equally excellent mr. harrelson sam rockwell — play range.the movie opens low boil mildred behind wheel station wagon near three derelict billboards. it’s inviting landscape smudged soft color, stares signs furrowed intensity, chews fingernail ferociously seems verge tearing off. billboards aren’t blank — faded image baby smiles one, word “life” pops another — they’re opening pages mildred’s opus. stamping black text blood-red background, uses billboards announce crusade mr. mcdonagh (who likes self-aware gestures) lays story’s fundamentals: setting, characters, problem, plot possible villain.the billboards gimmick mr. mcdonagh gambit mildred, way get things jumping (the investigators, tale) splash foreboding outwardly pacific scene. much story involves ripples outrage, confusion buffoonery billboards inspire soon envelop almost everyone mildred knows. months daughter’s death, grief walled in; isolating seemingly impenetrable, inscribed hardness gaze grim new identity mother dead girl. billboards turn grief weapon, means taking law assorted men — threatening stranger, vigilante dentist abusive ex (john hawkes) — collectively suggest another wall closed mildred in.mr. mcdonagh likes play comedy violence wring laughs unspeakable. kind juxtaposition (in movies, rate) produce laughter catches throat, giving pause maybe provoking thought exactly giggling. doesn’t always know material b, doesn’t care; jokes uninterestingly glib tiny, bloodless pricks less challenging audience obscuring material’s clichés overriding theatricality. everything fits together neatly “three billboards,” even chaos descends, performers add enough rough texture doesn’t always feel worked.ms. mcdormand roughs beautifully. performer great unforced naturalism, always come across like character actor star, even lead. never seems concerned losing audience’s love sympathy, thrilling, particularly given female performers often asked pander seduce. movie, makes pain palpably all-encompassing see character’s every glance gesture: squares mildred’s jaw, hardens mouth turns face stone, fortifying defenses. pain also makes ugly, maybe irredeemable, also makes joltingly, excitingly human.that stone face good comedy, too, even mr. mcdonagh’s bids humor grow progressively less successful. plays tones, realisms ideas “three billboards,” including sentimentally redeemed white racist, character suggests — despite rage invective — mr. mcdonagh holds hope humanity all. problem idea hits insistently vengeance hurt never subsides; it’s hurt mildred nurtures hardens that, time, becomes brutally consuming violence indistinguishable cause. ms. mcdormand still breaks heart, mr. mcdonagh wears out.
review: all-star ‘murder orient express’ surprises boyhood read agatha christie’s 1934 mystery novel “murder orient express,” copy handed mother, mystery enthusiast. early teens saw then-grand movie adaptation, all-star cast affair directed sidney lumet featuring albert finney finicky belgian detective hercule poirot. christie’s novel derives much notoriety solution mystery. it’s novel; whether it’s ingenious ostentatious still debated mystery lovers. even 40 years mr. lumet’s film presumed ending well-known would little point remake. yet, poet gerard manley hopkins said different context, generations trod, trod, trod, plenty millennials haven’t read book.mr. finney’s embodiment poirot lumet picture marathon sorts, actor testing many beloved character’s irritating yet endearing quirks could pushed limits coherence. latest version, kenneth branagh, also directs (from script michael green), gives us poirot who’s fussy fussy, rather crisp english-language diction. radically, poirot heart. interpretation dumb idea, mr. branagh, actor prodigious skills, least pull one half off. it’s dumb idea film, nevertheless bounces along way that’s sometimes almost entertaining.mr. branagh shot film 65-millimeter format, offers particular kind “big movie” resolution. people tend think big-gauge celluloid best big-vista movies, “lawrence arabia,” mr. branagh’s picture set almost entirely train. opulent train, cinematography haris zambarloukos gets ornate detail. also gets detail mostly c.g.i. special effects settings, marriage digital analog awkward. pursuit 65-millimeter shots, mr. branagh opens story regularly, however. train stall cliff-side rail, supported elaborate scaffolding stages foot chase. poirot deliver final summation case train tunnel.as mr. lumet’s adaptation, supporting cast full stars. michelle pfeiffer, judi dench, willem dafoe, penélope cruz, derek jacobi, newer faces like daisy ridley leslie odom jr., fill roster subjects. johnny depp, known make eccentric choices crafting characters, (necessarily) disappoint role murder victim, edward ratchett. imbuing unsavory character dopiest gangster mannerisms, mr. depp may remind matt leblanc’s “friends” character, joey tribbiani. it’s joey, lovable bad actor, trying make first big break movies.
louis c.k. admits sexual misconduct media companies cut ties comedian louis c.k. admitted friday engaged sexual misconduct several women. acknowledgment came film distributor canceled release forthcoming comedy media companies cut ties response new york times report women detailed behavior toward them.in statement friday, louis c.k. said, “i want address stories told new york times five women named abby, rebecca, dana, julia felt able name one not.”he continued, “these stories true.”[read statement louis c.k.]in times report, comedians dana min goodman, julia wolov rebecca corry, writer abby schachner, fifth woman spoke condition anonymity described upsetting interactions louis c.k. undressed masturbated front them, asked could masturbate front them, could heard masturbating telephone call.louis c.k. said statement told “what o.k.” asked women first. but, continued, learned “too late” “when power another person,” request “isn’t question. it’s predicament them.”“the power women admired me,” added. “and wielded power irresponsibly.”even louis c.k. remained one popular influential performers comedy – multiple emmy awards stand-up specials semi-autobiographical fx series, “louie” – rumors misconduct persisted several years.in substantial rebuke, fx networks fx productions, produce broadcast several television shows, said friday ending association him. overall production deal fx canceled, lost role executive producer – well compensation came title – fx comedy shows “better things” “baskets,” amazon series “one mississippi,” tbs animated series, “the cops.”the “one mississippi” star tig notaro, earlier criticized louis c.k. addressing behavior, said learning fx’s decision, “my response lyrics johnny nash’s ‘i see clearly now.’ may dark clouds continue move.”pamela adlon, star “better things,” created louis c.k., frequent performer work (including film “i love you, daddy”), said friday troubled louis c.k.’s admission. “my family devastated shock admission abhorrent behavior friend partner, louis c.k.,” ms. adlon said statement. “i feel deep sorrow empathy women come forward. asking privacy time family. processing grieving hope say soon able.”tbs said statement production “the cops,” planned 2018 debut, “suspended review.”also friday, 3 arts entertainment, managing louis c.k., dropped client. two women experienced louis c.k.’s misconduct believed manager, dave becky, wanted stop talking encounter him. mr. becky denied making threats toward them.and lewis kay, comedian’s publicist, said twitter post friday, “as today, longer represent louis c.k.”in statement, fx companies said, “louis confirmed truth reports relating five women victimized misconduct, unaware previously.”the companies added, “as far know, behavior past eight years five series produced fx networks and/or fx productions professional.”they continued, “however, time make television shows. time honestly address women come forth speak painful experiences, process began today public statement.”in statement, louis c.k. offer apologies women shared stories times.he said, however, “i remorseful actions. i’ve tried learn them. run them. i’m aware extent impact actions. learned yesterday extent left women admired feeling badly cautious around men would never put position.”louis c.k. also said needed acknowledge “the hurt i’ve brought people work with.”he added, “i’ve brought pain family, friends, children mother.”louis c.k. one several powerful men recently faced rapid consequences media reports brought attention allegations sexual misconduct harassment. harvey weinstein, film producer media executive; actor kevin spacey; filmmaker brett ratner; journalist mark halperin among prominent men experienced precipitous downfalls accounts accumulated.while louis c.k. one men admit conduct he’d accused of, many people found statement unsatisfactory wondered behavior addressed sooner. actress rose mcgowan, said mr. weinstein sexually assaulted her, wrote twitter post friday heard stories louis c.k. two years ago even though isn’t connected comedy scene. “industry faux-shock tired lie. send strength love women hurt code complicity.”the distributor louis c.k.’s coming film, “i love you, daddy,” said friday would go ahead nov. 17 release movie. comedy, wrote directed, acquired entertainment company orchard $5 million deal. louis c.k. stars tv comedy writer opposite john malkovich notorious 68-year-old filmmaker strikes uncomfortable relationship writer’s daughter (chloe grace moretz), yet turned 18.[ louis c.k. accused 5 women sexual misconduct ]following preview screenings “i love you, daddy,” several critics remarked troubling sexual politics certain scenes seemed commenting louis c.k.’s reputation misconduct.hbo said louis c.k. dropped lineup “night many stars,” comedy benefit nov. 18, pulled works on-demand service.netflix, struck deal louis c.k. create two new stand-up specials streaming service, said friday produce planned second special. (the first one, “louis c.k. 2017,” released april.)in statement, netflix said, “the allegations made several women new york times louis c.k.’s behavior disturbing. louis’s unprofessional inappropriate behavior female colleagues led us decide produce second stand-up special, planned.” netflix continues show earlier stand-up performances louis c.k.
battered tattered, puerto rico’s flag still waves mike vargas knows deal wrecks, even ones could take years. cars repairs soups inside northeast bronx auto body shop, east coast customs automotive playground, seem like easy fixes compared devastation puerto rico, family property. now, works cars, vibrant mural looms him, constantly reminding dire human challenges. suggesting famous photograph, “raising flag iwo jima,” mural depicts hard-hatted workers lifting flag-topped utility pole devastated landscape.not mr. vargas needs reminders. puerto rican new yorker, always thinking island’s humanitarian crisis. within days hurricane maria, group local body shop owners started collecting water emergency supplies, shipped island two cargo containers. though urgency situation may fading headlines, resolve not.“once thanksgiving hits, people going forget,” mr. vargas lamented. “when look wall tells we’re down. we’re rebuilding. we’re going get better. it’s like 9/11. want forget.”the mural created two graffiti artists: alfredo oyague, better known per one fx crew, alfred bennett, known royal kingbee. years, mr. oyague painted various murals shop, planning redo waiting room weeks ago mr. vargas’ request. mr. vargas suggested something based crisis puerto rico, mr. oyague showed image friend found online, recovery workers portrayed figures joe rosenthal’s iwo jima photo.“i told him, ‘yo mike, beautiful image it’s awesome statement, won’t fit waiting room,’” mr. oyague recalled. “he immediately fell love gave us big wall inside shop.”like many puerto ricans, mr. vargas felt federal response slow inadequate, situation made worse president trump’s twitter feed, reminded people cash-strapped island already “billions dollars” debt “wall street banks.” $4.9 billion federal aid proposed help island’s government pay bills, came loan.“it’s like owe money, shouldn’t get help.” mr. vargas said. “it’s like turned backs us.”mr. oyague deeply personal reasons inspired work mural. mother ana, 72, retired metropolitan transportation authority bus driver, lived barranquitas, hard-hit mountain town halfway san juan ponce. planned ride storm along sister, 85-year-old nun. brick house solid, immune wind water. prepare storm, moved generator ruptured disc back. then, hurricane, condition worsened.“the storm blew sliding door mom trying push back, wind strong,” mr. oyague said. “she blew back, let door go went bedroom sister. got top bed place started flood. nothing wait out.”even though waters receded, took eight days roads cleared. aunt staying religious order’s philadelphia convent, mother — using wheelchair back heals — moved apartment soundview section bronx, mr. oyague also lives. time uncertain exile, thoughts remain fixed many relatives island, like one uncle lives close mother’s house barranquitas.“we’re losing him,” mr. oyague said. “he’s well since depending himself. light water bad diabetes little bit — no, lot — drinking problem. can’t fend himself. don’t think he’s going make holidays.”given complicated history united states island territory, mr. oyague sees mural political statement many relate personal level. still seething mr. trump’s brief — limited — visit island, tossed rolls paper towels crowd.“that degrading,” said. “he thinks us second-rate citizens. we’re dependent upon u.s. u.s. purposely made us dependent them. needed use us. lot good traits don’t want people forget that.”mr. oyague thought strong, positive image could help inspire puerto ricans community. “it shows us rebuilding giving up. puerto rican flag still waving. even though island obliterated, we’re still here.”
david dinkins doesn’t think failed. might right. david n. dinkins became 106th mayor new york jan. 1, 1990, pledging “toughest mayor crime city ever seen.” day, 12 people murdered city. four years later, mr. dinkins lost bid re-election, beginning contested legacy still generate argument.“david dinkins failed mayor,” begins 2012 biography mr. dinkins.“david dinkins leader look to,” hillary clinton said 2015, adding mr. dinkins “helped lay foundation dramatic drops crime.”so goes complicated late career david dinkins, office slightest margins rudolph w. giuliani, lost man four years later. critics, symbolizes bad old days unchecked crime, racial tension fiscal anarchy. supporters, began turnaround successors still take credit. new yorkers voted overwhelmingly re-elect mayor bill de blasio week, part vote values rejected.what mean succeed fail mayor new york city? former mayor live amid judgment?on recent afternoon office columbia university, mr. dinkins sat surrounded plaques photographs celebrating highlights career, world apart arrows filled days. 90, african-american mayor city’s history, former mayor one quarter life, three times long held elective office. across desk new york newsday headline celebrating “mayor cool.”“i sit sometimes look reminisce,” mr. dinkins said, nodding toward photograph harry belafonte, friend. men turned 90 year. “he m.c. inauguration,” mr. dinkins said. “he one said me: ‘you run. must run.’ insisted run mayor.”mr. dinkins wore red patterned bow tie blue double-breasted suit, filled since stopped playing tennis years ago. talked, daughter called ask whether seen doctor nagging pain knee, alarm cellphone, programmed grandson, reminded take several medications. would wait; left home.he noted unique place new york lore. mayors face criticism problems linger leave office; mr. dinkins’s critics focus problems quickly abated.“the new york times probably obit now,” said, raising grievance aired before. spoke courtly formality, quick set piece score settle. “i always used say, they’ll say, ‘david dinkins, first black mayor city new york,’ next sentence crown heights,” brooklyn neighborhood four-day riot broke watch, widely criticized.would unfair?“in way,” said. “i don’t say it’s unfair, things accurate greater moment. think overall pretty good job. things went well, didn’t always get credit entitled, things go well, you’re mayor, it’s fault. still greatest job world.”in 2013, bill de blasio running first democratic mayor since mr. dinkins — two-decade drought city democrats outnumber republicans six one — state republican chairman, edward f. cox, warned mr. de blasio “is going take city back dinkins era,” adding, “the dinkins era crime grime high welfare rolls, that’s what’s going happen city.”david dinkins always code word bad old days. son housekeeper barber, raised segregated schools trenton, n.j., entered new york politics powerful harlem democratic clubhouse, formed alliances charles rangel, basil a. paterson percy e. sutton — “gang four” city’s african-american power structure. ran mayor 1989, figure civility healing.at time, first african-american mayors office los angeles, philadelphia, detroit, oakland baltimore; black mayors governed atlanta, newark washington, d.c., well. rev. jesse jackson carried new york city 1988 democratic presidential primary. new york seemed due.the city, turn, needed healing. recent racially charged attacks white jogger central park black teenager fleeing white mob bensonhurst, brooklyn, skyrocketing murder rate exacerbated crack trade, created image city control, ungovernable. wall street still reeling black monday crash 1987, city government faced budget shortfalls $1 billion.mr. dinkins arrived office wave hope, said wilbur c. rich, professor emeritus wellesley college author “david dinkins new york city politics.”“i excited, many black people excited see he’d do,” mr. rich said. “there triumphalism. there’s far go that. wears off, he’s mayor. lot us thought would something police department. didn’t that. lot us thought would demonstrate white community black people competent manage city size.”mr. dinkins’s first year saw record numbers murders major crimes, fiscal crisis, high levels homelessness city hall seemed disarray, staffers battling one another leaking press.but second year, crime began long decline imagined possible. mr. dinkins added cops streets — wangling tax increase — cadets police academy, went duty left office. averted fiscal takeover state, began remarkable transformation times square, returned public libraries six-day weeks, opened schools night community use expanded national tennis center flushing meadows, queens, city’s 108th mayor, michael r. bloomberg, called “the good athletic sports stadium deal, new york country.”“overall think bad,” mr. dinkins said.yet mayors succeed fail halls government also public imagination, said kenneth t. jackson, editor “the encyclopedia new york city” history professor columbia.“i think dinkins’s heart right place, didn’t create image someone who’s strong,” mr. jackson said. “koch giuliani, book-ended dinkins, seemed powerful, take-charge. whether wrong right policy new york different issue.”nor mr. dinkins, promised healer, mollify black leaders potential allies. civil rights activist c. vernon mason called mr. dinkins “traitor,” alton maddox called “an ed koch blackface”; fernando ferrer, democratic city councilman, called “maddeningly slow”; al sharpton called uncle tom “whore turning tricks city hall.” jewish leaders accused allowing black mobs attack jews crown heights. even newspaper’s endorsement mr. dinkins second term called “disengaged,” undisciplined, “slow react” “maddeningly phlegmatic.”numbers stories, though sometimes get turned them. one story, homicides fell 13 percent mr. dinkins’s tenure, record high 2,245 first year 1,946 last. another, 1,946 killings mark city still crisis. (last year 335.)successful mayors inhabit first story; failed mayors live one.“the key thing dinkins years sense fear,” said fred siegel, scholar residence st. francis college contributing editor conservative city journal, former adviser mr. giuliani. “crime fell, fell marginally. people panicked. response crime ineffectual.”asked mr. dinkins’s impact city, mr. siegel said: “he made possible moderately conservative mayor elected new york. turned competent mayor we’ve since la guardia.”at heart david dinkins’s story mayor four days august 1991, car rabbi’s motorcade crown heights ran red light killed 7-year-old guyanese boy named gavin cato.the neighborhood exploded. angry black residents assailed driver, escaped via volunteer jewish ambulance crew. two hours later, crowd surrounded stabbed rabbinical student named yankel rosenbaum, died wound noticed hospital.three days mayhem followed, bands black residents taking streets, chanting “heil hitler” “kill jews,” jewish residents accusing black mayor permitting “pogrom,” organized massacre ethnic group. crowds hurled bricks bottles police patrols, forcing run lives; mayor police commissioner also came attack. network news reports showed buildings police cars fire, mayor appeared powerless — said unwilling — restore order.finally, mayor police department changed tactics, negotiating arresting combatants. fires crowds dissipated. news cameras went home. damage done.in office quarter-century later, mr. dinkins dismissed question whether, changed tactics one night sooner, might re-election.“you don’t know fact,” said. “i said police brass, whatever guys doing, ain’t working. need get together. whether police thought wanted lenient blacks attacking jews — can’t imagine would thought — case. got accused that, that’s painful.”had won, turn, place history might different, said john h. mollenkopf, director center urban research graduate center city university new york. police cadets authorized would hit streets watch; crime might really dropped, mr. giuliani, aided end crack epidemic; walt disney company’s restoration new amsterdam theater 1997, began transformation 42nd street (the deal started mr. dinkins closed mr. giuliani), would lifted mayoralty.mr. dinkins declined speculate. “the action one takes circumstance like ought based get votes lose votes,” said. “it ought based right thing do. everybody’s whole lot smarter fact.”new yorkers always love mayors. mr. de blasio, july poll quinnipiac university, approval rating 50 percent, 46 percent respondents saying deserved re-election. three years office, mr. bloomberg approval rating 43 percent.neither met real resistance re-election. mr. giuliani finished first term 62 percent approval rating, sunk badly second, rebounded dynamism attacks sept. 11, 2001.mr. de blasio, junior staffer mr. dinkins, said mr. dinkins’s problem image created tabloids, still loud powerful early ’90s.“dinkins got raw deal largely race,” mr. de blasio said telephone interview re-election. “and got raw deal loud, showy personality wasn’t always trying claim credit. normal assessment history would say, wait minute, added cops, that’s turned around.”“the thing learned audacity deal appeared intractable problem,” mr. de blasio added. “the fact we’re safest big city america today directly links actions getting resources albany get us size police force needed.“none predecessors figured it. i’m sure successor, took lot credit work done resources dinkins got — i’m sure successor could pulled albany political reality.”yet mr. dinkins failed, among voters time. winning election 1989 50 percent vote, lost 1993 50 percent, difference often attributed surge voter turnout staten island, voters ballot initiative secede city. almost well regarded four years taking office. neither election win one third white voters, even though democratic opponent races, mr. giuliani, political experience lot rough edges.in mr. dinkins’s 2013 autobiography, attributed loss “just racism, pure simple.”j. phillip thompson iii, worked mr. dinkins’s administration teaches urban politics massachusetts institute technology, said mr. dinkins’s true legacy coming fruition now.“a lot things de blasio successful around, emphasis affordable housing universal pre-k, things dinkins pushed hard,” mr. thompson said. “also, way went crime issue much deeper approach community policing giuliani had, time approaches proved effective. avoid issues got stop frisk police chokings. dinkins worked hard develop strong relationships police community.“he doesn’t get credit lot things,” added. “giuliani took credit reducing crime, isn’t one hired 5,000 cops $3 billion budget gap. narrative tends skip that.”in defeat, mr. dinkins became second new york mayor last century lose re-election single four-year term. this, too, legacy live with. him, black mayor major american city failed win second term.“i’m sure people think today,” mr. dinkins said dryly. “i think re-election. can’t answer didn’t. matter, could argued never first place, did. people infinite wisdom determined great american mayor, rudy giuliani.”he added, “we didn’t go job saying, well, can’t solve problems crime, can’t solve problems homelessness. everything thought could do. overall think bad.”his two successors, mr. giuliani mr. bloomberg, courted run president, largely differences cities mr. dinkins’s. mr. giuliani promised inauguration, “the era fear long-enough reign,” end first term, reign returned.even now, said letitia james, re-elected public advocate nov. 7, new yorkers contentious agree upon dinkins legacy. ms. james, studied mr. dinkins columbia, became first african-american woman hold citywide office elected public advocate 2013. said distinction, like city’s first black mayor, “nothing historical footnote, particularly don’t reach across form coalitions others.”still, mr. thompson, m.i.t. professor former dinkins staffer, said history would kind old boss. recent years, city named historic harlem tennis court him, well manhattan municipal building downtown david dinkins circle flushing meadows, near tennis stadium.“if look blacks, latinos progressive whites, 80 percent cities they’re majority now,” mr. thompson said. “and dinkins symbolized beginning that.“whether agree everything said kind secondary. point was, this. david dinkins didn’t elect himself. african-american community, latino community, progressive white community this. dinkins, again.“the message change. it’s possible. that’s dinkins symbolized.”
statement win notre dame, miami back miami gardens, fla. — one times n.f.l. lets hair certain broadcasts, notably nbc’s “sunday night football,” starters team give names colleges quick video introductions.there one alma mater whose name always announced alumni words way, businesslike tone mixing seriousness pride, room doubt team referring to. generic nicknames: u.a reference “u” makes university miami logo, moniker reflects team’s track record producing exciting stars, brash affect, raucous city.when u going strong, might coolest party college sports. potential thing could felt saturday night’s marquee matchup hard rock stadium, miami, ostensible underdog no. 7, dropped no. 3 notre dame, 41-8.“this natural order restored,” said defensive coordinator manny diaz, adolescent miami native 1980s five seasons hurricanes went 55-5 two national titles. “this way be.”no one young enough college player could well remember days miami’s teams stalked landscape breathing fire exuding intimidation, program five national titles 1983 2002.since hurricanes national title 2001 season — featuring roster crammed n.f.l. prospects eventually produced 17 first-round picks — endured devastating overtime loss ohio state national title game year later, hurricanes wilderness, mired coaching changes mediocre records.“i older brother talked first got here, u back rise,” said left tackle k.c. mcdermott, senior younger brother miami’s center 2012 2014.“this wasn’t one-year thing,” added. “this taken years, taken blood, sweat tears lot recruits.”when mark richt fired 2015 long successful tenure georgia, miami job pulled former quarterback backed jim kelly u.“when decided continue coach, really want enjoy — wanted fun,” richt said. “and better place miami fun?”with arrival week showcase game notre dame — significant obstacle season, one miami’s bitter rivals — former miami players appeared like ghosts championships past. ed reed, former safety baltimore ravens, attended practice every day last week, saturday night joined ex-hurricanes-turned-n.f.l. stars warren sapp clinton portis sideline pregame living monuments better times, trying show current players way similar future.“those guys actually it,” said linebacker shaq quarterman, sophomore, “so could take heed they’re saying?”and now, u back.ranked no. 7 entering saturday committee determines four-team college football playoff, miami improved 9-0 handing irish second defeat. miami set face defending champion clemson (9-1), ranked 4th, atlantic coast conference championship game dec. 2, winner certain invited national semifinals.the postseason picture came firmer relief saturday even miami’s victory notre dame. no. 1 georgia (9-1) lost no. 10 auburn (8-2) earlier saturday, serious blow bulldogs’ aspirations lift tigers, face alabama two weeks. stanford’s upset no. 9 washington (8-2) friday night likely ended pacific-12’s chance playoff.the clearing field conspicuously aided no. 7 wisconsin (10-0), partially neutralizing soft schedule. also set annual game auburn alabama (10-0) consequential iron bowl since 2013 iteration, kick-six fame.the fighting irish dropped 8-2, no. 3 seed associated press poll playoff rankings due serious readjustment. frequently derided (to quote miami’s crowd second half) “overrated,” notre dame entered saturday wins two ranked teams loss third, georgia, single point, arrived country’s seventh-best scoring offense, averaging 41 points per game.for game clear severe playoff implications, much pregame chatter tended direction mythology.notre dame miami yearly rivals, late 1980s played several games defined entire season nationally. ostensibly divergent identities — irish pious midwestern schoolboys; hurricanes bold, athletic steeped hip-hop culture — crystallized notre dame fan-made t-shirt summarized rivalry “catholics vs. convicts.”the dynamic exaggerated even (and also loaded ugly racial subtext). college football deracinated since days, teams’ ties place culture evaporating fog national broadcast deals coast-to-coast recruiting. extratextual contrivances mainly ways teams fans imagine communities.this year, instance, miami brought turnover chain, heavy hunk cuban link chain goes defensive players steal ball offense. harks back past defensive hurricanes standouts like sapp, reed sean taylor, miami’s culture unsubtle audacity.the turnover chain changed hands several times saturday night, beginning first quarter, junior safety jaquan johnson picked notre dame quarterback brandon wimbush, peaking cornerback trajan bandy, true freshman like many miami stars past south florida native, jumped route end first half, caught notre dame pass stride returned 65 yards give miami 27-0 halftime lead.he happily slipped chain turn it, u aspires different piece jewelry season.“we’re back,” said quarterback malik rosier, redshirt junior, “‘til there’s ring finger.”
n.f.l. picks: redskins vikings; patriots broncos second consecutive week, n.f.l. obvious contender great game. matchups seem one-sided, shake-ups top league seem imminent. said, mismatches turn upsets teams take preparations seriously, games could turn interesting hurry.last week’s record spread: 7-5-1overall record: 64-65-3texans rams, 4:05 p.m., cbsline: rams 12it easy get caught focusing changed improving team foundation success. case rams (6-2), uptick offense managed steal attention defense quietly excellent years.everything starts front los angeles, aaron donald michael brockers. donald, team’s mammoth defensive tackle, rated top defensive lineman pro football focus, also highest graded player position. traditional statistics interior linemen fail capture player’s true value, donald manages one defensive tackles elite stopping pass run. watch enough rams games know despite 285 pounds, embarrass team drops back coverage.donald brockers ideal pairing inside, complemented defense several top-level players including star-studded secondary features lamarcus joyner, john johnson, kayvon webster nickell robey-coleman. defense struggled stop run, tremendous pass, allowing average 223.6 yards game air opposing quarterback rating 75.6, fourth lowest mark n.f.l. top-six team interceptions sacks, average 19.4 points allowed game good also inflated pair high-scoring wins san francisco dallas.all add horrible day texans (3-5). tom savage good quarterback regardless opponent, running away donald trying throw tight coverage, especially bad.here’s tricky thing picking game: 12 points enormous spread, even home, jared goff, vastly improved last season, still inconsistent. much concern rams could lose, garbage-time touchdowns likely swing spread favor houston. pick: texanscowboys falcons, 4:25 p.m., foxline: falcons 3atlanta’s season summed one play last week: matt ryan throwing perfect 40-yard pass wide-open julio jones end zone, jones simply dropping ball. painful shocking turn events — play came fourth falcons (4-4) trailing 10 points — kurt coleman, defensive back panthers, walked console jones. life atlanta year magical run super bowl ended brutal collapse. intrigue game still, neither team knows ezekiel elliott allowed play, recent improvement cowboys (5-3) shown sides ball, dallas line road win regardless happens thursday’s court hearing. pick: cowboyspatriots broncos, 8:30 p.m., nbcline: patriots 7.5before anyone gets excited patriots (6-2) drastically cutting number passing yards team allowed last two games, worth noting gave average 138.5 rushing yards game two wins. new england’s defense might higher gear, broncos (3-5) brock osweiler present much challenge. add c. j. anderson working way ankle injury denver seem personnel keep new england, matter bad patriots’ defense is. pick: patriotsvikings redskins, 1 p.m., foxline: vikings 1the error margin case keenum reduced zero. keenum, career backup, wants remain starting quarterback vikings (6-2), need keep winning. teddy bridgewater cleared play, unless knee injury turned entirely different quarterback, represents enormous upgrade minnesota. mind, redskins (4-4) could problem keenum far talented 4-4 record indicates. four losses come eagles (twice), chiefs (when team looked unbeatable) cowboys. last week’s win seattle showed resilient kirk cousins continues fearless. taking many chances minnesota’s secondary could dangerous, redskins win, bridgewater’s return field week later, seem well within realm possibilities. pick: redskinssaints bills, 1 p.m., foxline: saints 2.5the saints (6-2) passing team loves playing indoors, trip buffalo chilly sunday afternoon present interesting test. huge factor fare, though, come version bills (5-3) shows up. two weeks ago, buffalo looked great easily beat raiders, last week, hardly competitive jets, allowing 194 rushing yards three rushing touchdowns. rushing success jets saints may want pay attention to: mark ingram alvin kamara, running backs exploit weakness. another win would seven row new orleans. important, would improve team’s road record 4-1. pick: saintssteelers colts, 1 p.m., cbsline: steelers 10.5the steelers (6-2) settled groove. defense shuts things down, keeping score nice low, offense, despite presence three n.f.l.’s biggest stars, enough win. whether aging ben roethlisberger, tension among players opponents adjusting unit together several seasons, don’t run score way used to. going road colts (3-6) present true upset opportunity: steelers extremely likely win, spread 10.5 points seems high considering pittsburgh’s track record. pick: coltsseahawks cardinals, 8:25 p.m. (thursday), nbcline: seahawks 6the seahawks (5-3) one game removed four-game winning streak, defense taken huge step back last weeks: texans redskins showed fear throwing directly seattle’s secondary. injuries factor, earl thomas richard sherman playing injuries, still shocking see teams much success throwing ball them. drew stanton cardinals (4-4) aggressive passer like deshaun watson kirk cousins, level exploitation expected. arizona probably try make running early often veteran back adrian peterson, performed well since coming new orleans, may find much room run week. thursday games messy, seattle success arizona, wants avoid falling way behind rams n.f.c. west, game needs something statement. pick: seahawkschargers jaguars, 1 p.m., cbsline: jaguars 4the jaguars (5-3) nearly perfect defense one glaring flaw: could stop run. trade marcell dareus, run-stopping defensive tackle known quantity coach doug marrone, may deserve credit last week’s effort (29 rushing yards allowed), whipped unit shape, jacksonville hard score upon.the chargers (3-5) interesting test theory, melvin gordon, star running back, type player would torched jaguars previous weeks. dareus stops him, jacksonville’s run losing even-numbered weeks season may finally end.on offense, jaguars get nice boost leonard fournette, showed practice time week, get back field held violation team rules. pick: jaguarsbrowns lions, 1 p.m., cbsline: lions 12.5the lions (4-4) may look like playoff contender, .500 record several frustrating losses, considerably better record, last week’s win green bay opened door go winning streak ahead week 12 showdown division-leading minnesota. browns (0-8) speed bump path. detroit probably cover 12.5-point spread, cares playoff hopes win game. pick: brownsjets buccaneers, 1 p.m., cbsline: jets 2.5with jameis winston shut least two weeks, buccaneers (2-6) turn ryan fitzpatrick quarterback. downgrade winston full strength, probably upgrade way winston played since injuring shoulder. add revenge factor fitzpatrick’s playing jets (4-5), discarded season set franchise single-season record passing touchdowns, could turn mild upset. pick: buccaneerspackers bears, 1 p.m., foxline: bears 5the statistics mitchell trubisky much better brett hundley, difference trubisky, rookie quarterback bears (3-5), trying overcome subpar wide receivers, hundley, third-year backup packers (4-4), teammates offense made green bay super bowl contender hundley replaced injured aaron rodgers. hundley’s lack production partially result ultraconservative game plan, opportunistic bears defense may make pay tries aggressive third career start. pick: bearsbengals titans, 1 p.m., foxline: titans 4.5the bengals (3-5) got huge boost matchup n.f.l. chose suspend a. j. green fight loss jacksonville last week. presence gives cincinnati enough offense compete, titans (5-3) back-to-back games, put little distance lowly opponents (baltimore cleveland). probably another close game. pick: bengalsgiants 49ers, 4:25 p.m., foxline: giants 1with poorly 49ers (0-9) played almost every facet game, reason optimism welcome change. quarterback jimmy garoppolo, acquired recent trade new england, represents optimism, san francisco yet make commitment when, if, play. young talent-deprived team insists sticking c. j. beathard another week, giants (1-7) destined second win. pick: giantsdolphins panthers, 8:30 p.m., espnline: panthers 9for second consecutive week, prime-time audience forced endure atrocious offense dolphins (4-4). supposed breakout season miami, quarterback ryan tannehill leading several star-level wide receivers young pro bowler running back jay ajayi. instead, tannehill season, ajayi traded philadelphia dolphins’ wide receivers left shuffling along team often struggles score double digits. panthers (6-3) inconsistent frustrating, defense may look prove point making game laugher. pick: panthers.
antidoping officials obtain trove russian lab data world anti-doping agency, global regulator drugs sports, said friday obtained digital trove information could greatly expand revelations russia’s state-sponsored doping program. massive scheme corrupted results several olympics imperiled country’s eligibility coming winter games south korea.the agency said investigations department possession since late october electronic file long considered final piece puzzle revealing contours doping system. agency said news release confident file contained “all testing data” january 2012 august 2015 — thousands drug screenings run russian athletes.“this evidence could another mother lode potentially open new dimension gravity fraud perpetrated russia doping conspiracy,” travis t. tygart, chief executive united states anti-doping agency, said friday. “clean athletes expect deserve justice whole truth brought light.”the database, russian authorities unwilling share antidoping investigators, arrived whistle-blower, according two people direct knowledge situation spoke condition anonymity.information database expected provide new level evidence international olympic committee weighs penalize russia ahead winter games pyeongchang, south korea. new information could compel olympic officials issue stiffer penalties.“this confirms schemes provides definitive evidence disappearing positives moscow lab,” said richard mclaren, canadian lawyer whose independent investigation conducted last year illuminated breadth depth doping program. “if information provides think provide, confirm doping rule violations. already series cases closed approval wada, cases may well reopened.”the antidoping agency said news release investigators “finalizing forensic analysis enormous backup file assessing information relevant,” asserting “confident” authenticity information.russian officials immediately respond request comment submitted government’s sports ministry.the antidoping regulator seized opportunity friday restate another request: russia accept findings mr. mclaren’s inquiry, confirmed top government officials russia’s federal security service helped coordinated cheating.“this new intelligence serves reinforce requirement russian authorities publicly accept outcomes,” last year’s investigation, global antidoping agency’s president, craig reedie, said statement.through mr. mclaren’s inquiry, antidoping watchdog deconstructed russia’s cheating schemes determined 1,000 athletes tied three half years. still, officials determined many individual cases would hard impossible prosecute, part russia’s lack cooperation providing certain evidence, including stored urine samples electronic lab records past tests.antidoping officials several countries urged olympic leaders take harder stance russia wake mr. mclaren’s investigation — even calling nation barred pyeongchang games — pointed russia’s refusal turn electronic data.the world anti-doping agency ordered russia share database watchdog would agree restore russia good standing certify compliance global antidoping code. agency due evaluate russia’s cooperation decide whether recertify nation meeting next week seoul.investigators studied russia corrupted several olympics — notably 2014 sochi games, country controlled antidoping laboratory dominated medal standings — coveted electronic files moscow.known laboratory information management system data, records reflect results lab tests run machines russia’s national antidoping lab, nondescript five-story building miles kremlin. also reveal identity athlete lab analysis corresponded.outside international competitions, nations responsible drug-testing athletes reporting results tests global database. russia, however, national antidoping laboratory alerted nation’s sports ministry athletes tested positive, often followed deputy sports minister’s directive falsely report positive drug tests clean results international authorities, according mr. mclaren former longtime director russia’s lab, dr. grigory rodchenkov.in inquiry report published last december, mr. mclaren said uncovered records 500 incriminating tests falsely recorded 2011 2015.“well-known elite level athletes initial results automatically falsified,” wrote, noting that, without access russia’s lab data forensic analysis it, extent similar discrepancies full scope cheating could possibly known.but database regulator’s possession reveals new inconsistencies testing histories russian athletes, sports officials could mount strong disciplinary cases.without positive drug test, challenging build case athlete withstand legal challenge. date, olympic officials issued penalties six russian olympians competed sochi exonerated another; investigations scores others continuing.global officials sport separately asked review allegations hundreds athletes. antidoping regulator agreed close least 95 suspicious cases identified mr. mclaren based lack evidence.olympic officials currently deliberating punish russia state-sponsored schemes, russian government official allowed attend 2016 rio games. international olympic committee expected announced decision regarding russia’s participation 2018 winter games early december.the issue escalated far beyond sports world, stirring geopolitical rhetoric. president vladimir v. putin week criticized recent disciplinary decisions russian olympians american attempt undermine russia affect nation’s presidential election march.
review: ‘the band’s visit’ ravishing musical whispers romance breaking news broadway theatergoers, even — perhaps especially — thought past age infatuation: time fall love again.one ravishing musicals ever seduced opened thursday night barrymore theater. called “the band’s visit,” undeniable allure hard-charging, brightly blaring sort common box-office extravaganzas.instead, portrait single night tiny israeli desert town confirms lyric arrives, like nearly everything remarkable show, breath reluctantly romantic hope: “nothing beautiful something don’t expect.”with songs david yazbek script itamar moses, “the band’s visit” broadway rarity seldom found days outside canon stephen sondheim: honest-to-god musical grown-ups. work punctuated rowdy cheers foot-stomping ovations, despite uncanny virtuosity mr. yazbek’s benchmark score.that would stop show, really don’t want happen. directed david cromer inspired inventiveness never calls attention itself, “the band’s visit” flows grave joyful insistence life itself. asks quiet enough hear music murmurs, whispers silences human existence mundane — transcendent.and, oh yes, willing heart broken, least little. “the band’s visit,” stars magnificent katrina lenk tony shalhoub would-be lovers not-quite paradise, like life way, too.there worries finely detailed show, based eran kolirin’s screenplay 2007 film title, might survive transfer broadway. first staged sold-out houses late last year atlantic theater company, exuded shimmering transparency might well evaporated less intimate quarters.yet “the band’s visit” — follows modest adventures touring egyptian band stranded israeli village significant insignificance — holds larger stage. impeccably coordinated creative team magnified polished assets high sheen never feels synthetic.this show always close perfect musically. (mr. yazbek’s quietly simmering score, inflects broadway balladry character songs haunting middle eastern accent, felt essential oxygen.) felt shade less persuasive connective spoken scenes.that is, say least, longer problem. though lives depicts governed caution born chronic disappointment, mr. cromer’s production moves wire wire thoroughbred’s confidence.such assurance impressive consider “the band’s visit” built delicately balanced contradictions. finds ecstasy ennui; eroticism among people rarely make physical contact; sense profound eventfulness plot which, told, little happens.the story sprung members alexandria ceremonial band, led straight-backed conductor, tewfiq (mr. shalhoub), board bus 1996 engagement arab cultural center city petah tikva. thanks understandable confusion ticket counter, wind instead flyblown backwater bet hatikva.they register unmistakably alien figures there, looking like refugees sgt. pepper’s lonely hearts club band powder-blue uniforms. (sarah laux costumes.) there’s bus godforsaken hole next morning.just uninteresting bet hatikva? residents happy tell you, wittiest songs ever written bored. “b” begins name might well stand “basically bleak beige blah blah blah.”leading civic inventory cafe proprietor named dina (ms. lenk, star-making performance), wry beauty clearly doesn’t belong clearly never leave. like fellow citizens, sees defining condition life eternal waiting, state “keep looking distance/ even though know view never gonna change.”scott pask’s revolving set, fitting world life seems spin endless circle, captures sameness view. tyler micoleau’s lighting, whispers projections maya ciarrocchi, evoke subliminal changes perspective stirred arrival strangers.connections among egyptian israeli characters inevitably incomplete. begin with, don’t share language must communicate broken english. stranded musicians interact hosts, shared story becomes tally sweet nothings, regretful might-have-beens.that means cultural collisions consummations — — might anticipate don’t occur. even frictions emerge uninvited arabs israeli soil flicker die like damp matches.the show carefully veined images incompleteness: forever unlit cigarette mouth violinist (george abud); clarinet concerto never completed composer (alok tewari); public telephone never rings, guarded local (adam kantor) waiting call girlfriend; pickup line that’s dangled like unbaited hook band’s aspiring lothario (ari’el stachel, whose smooth jazz vocals dazzle style character’s idol, chet baker).all cast members — also include deeply affecting john cariani, kristen sieh, etai benson andrew polk — forge precisely individualized characters, lonely people known loss, everything nothing common. marvelous mr. shalhoub (“monk”) grown role man carries dignity private grief stiffness someone transporting perilously fragile cargo.as ms. lenk, seen broadway last season paula vogel’s “indecent,” ideal avatar show’s paradoxical spirit, coolly evasive warmly expansive, like jasmine wind dina describes breakout ballad “omar sharif.”listening tewfiq sing arabic, wonders, “is singing wishing?” goes on: “i don’t know feel, don’t know know/all know feel something different.”mr. yazbek’s melody matches exquisitely uncertain certainty lyrics. “something different” heart-clutching sensation throbs throughout miraculous show, precise elusive, poignant both.
uma thurman, ready tested uma thurman knows retakes theater, postproduction fixes, chances dub line. strides onstage “the parisian woman,” play beau willimon, “house cards” creator, opens nov. 30 hudson theater, flattering lenses editing trickery help her.“of course it’s exposing,” said dinner recently, “but exposure, challenge. can’t test safety.”how many tests ms. thurman, 47, pass? oscar nominee “pulp fiction,” forceful, high-voltage presence film “dangerous liaisons” 1988, “kill bill” movies early aughts, “nymphomaniac” movies 2013. 5-foot-11-inch woman pre-raphaelite face spiky wit. movies haven’t always known her. vice versa.“a great cinema role comes along times,” ms. thurman said dryly. “maybe people, often. everybody.”this goes long way toward explaining wild incoherence imdb page, bounces “henry & june” “a muppets christmas: letters santa,” “my super ex-girlfriend” “the golden bowl.”it also suggests actress ms. thurman’s starry rank, one previous professional theater credit, onstage every second every scene chloe, chic pleasure-seeker workaholic husband carousel lovers.with career spent trying “to decent work hard” amid described hollywood’s “contempt dismissiveness toward women kinds,” comes relief find role like one.yet even opportunity shadowed outside forces: allegations sexual assault harassment miramax co-founder harvey weinstein, produced several ms. thurman’s movies, accusations sexual misconduct kevin spacey, star mr. willimon’s netflix show.after full day rehearsal heels, ms. thurman arrived japanese restaurant late, winded steeplechase tourist-crammed midtown. looked like olympian goddess hours, goddess rumpled scarf, tousled hair immediate need phone teenage son check soccer game. (she two older children, including soccer-playing son, ex-husband, ethan hawke, younger daughter former fiancé arpad busson.)“i’ve definitely reached point complete maximum preoccupation i’m trying keep up,” said.she first learned “the parisian woman” two years ago, shared entertainment lawyer brokered coffee date tony-winning director pam mackinnon. ms. thurman always meant return theater, finding quality film roles thin ground. (asked lack great parts women 35, ms. thurman pounced question finished: “or 35,” said.)she wanted know broadway offer. broadway, ms. thurman said. “any theater.”over coffee, ms. mackinnon batted classical heroines back forth. ms. mackinnon mentioned mr. willimon’s script, inspired “la parisienne,” 1885 play minor french writer henry becque melding boulevard comedy daring realism. mr. willimon, broadway playwright creating “house cards,” relocated ethics-optional beltway present-day d.c.ms. mackinnon sent script, ms. thurman felt instantly drawn chloe, parisian woman title. (chloe actually american. long story.) admired chloe’s “emancipation sense entitlement, sexual freedom,” said. “the sheer confidence character.”chloe flirt schemer, dilettante high-heeled brawler, woman appetite.another coffee date arranged, time mr. willimon, described meeting “hey, let’s get know make sure don’t hate other’s guts.” ms. thurman brought script, already studded questions notes.an earlier version play premiere south coast repertory 2013, featuring dana delany, lower-wattage star, lead. speaking ms. thurman, mr. willimon uncanny feeling, “as though almost impossibly i’d written play — poise, charm, sense playfulness humor. things chloe needs order exist, uma naturally.” play’s producers felt way, delaying industry reading ms. thurman recovered bone-breaking horse-riding accident.as ms. mackinnon said, “chloe movie star charisma.” it’s pretty helpful ms. thurman already movie star.plays, however, ms. thurman’s first taste acting. sophomore massachusetts boarding school, played female lead “the crucible.” 30 years later, swagger throaty voice said, “it achievement sophomore get role usually senior gets.”some agents she’d met modeling summer came see play. interest helped persuade parents, robert thurman, professor buddhist studies columbia university, nena von schlebrügge, former fashion model helps run menla, retreat catskill mountains, let transfer manhattan’s professional children’s school. 17, booked first four film roles, including clamshell-born venus “the adventures baron munchausen” convent girl cécile “dangerous liaisons.”“it wasn’t difficult cast her,” said stephen frears, director “dangerous liaisons,” speaking telephone. “she striking, beautiful fresh.”she also, mr. frears said, “very formidable.” that’s hallmark career also maybe clue career eclectic. ms. thurman isn’t delicate actress melting one kind comes right front movie screen invites in. there’s remove lot best work (“henry & june,” “kill bill”), sense emotions ideas alone.she refused typecast siren femme fatale struggled find roles attract her. isn’t won’t play wives girlfriends — will, has. women likely steal scene yield it.quentin tarantino, directed gangster’s wife “pulp fiction” wrote “kill bill” movies her, compared ms. thurman golden-age luminaries like greta garbo bette davis. “there’s year’s blonde there’s last year’s blonde. interchangeable. me, uma quality could rank marlene dietrich,” said phone interview. also called her, affection, “a big, tall willow.”will ms. thurman’s old-hollywood style play broadway? 1999 outing, film star jennifer martin crimp’s version molière’s “the misanthrope,” didn’t dazzle critics. “she brings mind beautiful, sheltered girl first grown-up dance, putting airs hoping hope she’ll get away it,” ben brantley wrote new york times.did tone responses surprise her? “i don’t expect anyone pat back,” said. script, series rhymed couplets barnacled topical quips, “was impenetrably difficult,” said. “it madness.”since then, closest ms. thurman come stage role guest-star arc first season nbc show “smash,” played rebecca, movie star trying conquer broadway, felled out-of-town tryout tainted smoothie.nothing dramatic affected “the parisian woman,” ms. thurman mr. willimon found news reasons unrelated play. rehearsals began, accusations mr. weinstein broke wide. whether personally subject abuse, ms. thurman gave clipped response, “i’ll discuss want discuss it.” (in “access hollywood” interview, since gone viral, offered similar answer, though obviously indignant tones.)in late october, allegations mr. spacey also surfaced production “house cards,” halted. (mr. willimon left series 2016.)though “the parisian woman” traffics questions sex power, discussion real-world events “never made way rehearsal room,” ms. mackinnon said firmly.inside room, days actors move theater technical rehearsals, ms. thurman clacked onto temporary set teal heels, prop phone hand, gemstone glint eye. mischief languor, subdued lover (marton csokas) teased husband (josh lucas). (mischief extended downtime, too. reporter slunk room, ms. thurman called brightly, “write fake news us today!”)the blocking scene wasn’t set yet; pacing juddered. ms. thurman lobbed line like, “i can’t control falls love me,” landed.ms. mackinnon occasionally stopped action offer suggestion. sometimes suggestions ms. thurman’s. maybe could speak early line lightly. maybe cross stage later. asked ms. mackinnon could sit argument mr. csokas’s character, better soothe him. “it’s physical de-escalation oppositional line,” ms. thurman explained typical hyperarticulacy.rehearsing play required adjustments ways attacks role. method still mr. tarantino described motivated emotional connection character “from inside out,” said. “she’s surface, right?”but decades telling herself, “everything better perfect right now,” adapt scenes built gradually, days weeks, rather knocked together couple hours. translated habit multiple takes rehearsal room exploration, playing different tones stances.as ms. mackinnon said, “she’ll complete one version look say, ‘or …’ she’ll go back completely different way.”an upside: playing versions opposite live actors rather place-holding pieces tape. “i’ve made whole films tape,” said.eight shows week wear actor down. yet ms. thurman wasn’t worried keeping chloe fresh. “kill bill” movies she’d lived character, bride, year, still managed find variation. “acting never felt routine me,” said.playing chloe, said, taxing part decade. forcing use actorly muscles “in total protracted way.”is chloe siren? maybe. femme fatale? depends ask. happily, that, too.as dinner wound down, plates vegetables tiny bowls tofu littering table, ms. thurman considered question woman like chloe really wants. “i think i’m still exploring that,” said. finally, gave called “a banal bad answer.”“i think she’s wanting demanding fully alive,” ms. thurman said.it didn’t sound terrible.
review: ‘what we’re against,’ sexism story timely ever theresa rebeck’s furious office comedy “what we’re against” come along recent moment — opened wp theater even couple months ago instead week — would easy dismiss overblown relic age, 25 years ago, women traditionally male fields really deck stacked them. even then, bad?what difference global scandal makes. since early october, public cascade sexual abuse allegations producer harvey weinstein began, fresh awareness rampant misogyny stripped veneer meritocracy workplace. suddenly “what we’re against” — written 1992, long anita hill testified senate, accusing supreme court nominee clarence thomas sexual harassment — feels cathartic clarifying, map minefield drawn bold cartoon colors.directed adrienne campbell-holt, ms. rebeck’s play isn’t, happens, sexual harassment. it’s ugly ways woman foiled dismissed, ostracized worn down, she’s trying job. it’s also happens dares show anger, fighting back shut out.talented ambitious, eliza (krysta rodriguez) new architect firm whose unseen owner, david, hired excellent mind. (they must sleeping together, right? everyone says so.) she’s recent arrival, though, weber (skylar astin), sycophantic blowhard whose abundant lack talent doesn’t keep assigned project teams. eliza, meanwhile, sits shamefully small office nothing do.“when experience there, she’ll put projects,” villainous team leader, stu (damian young), says, swilling drink glass-top desk. “she wants know get experience she’s project. good question. tell her: initiative.”that garbage, course — we’ve already heard call sexist slur can’t repeated — anyway stu outraged eliza’s initiative. play opens, tricked putting weber’s name design own, asking stu explain makes good. fell it, said hers.“this we’re against,” stu grouses, retelling tale.perhaps best known deposed creator “smash,” ms. rebeck long made way man’s world theater television. remember hearing male theater director, years ago, disparage glaringly misogynistic language — tipoff judgment reflected her. understands terrain inside.as sitcomish sometimes feels, “what we’re against” complex view characters dynamics. janice (marg helgenberger) firm years, eliza’s arrival woman architect. (the unseen support staff is, notes, female.)janice recognizes structural flaws office culture, like lot people find sole representative demographic group, opts dwell them. gets along threatening men — keeping expectations low, comments flattering work mediocre. also, dresses like librarian. (the costumes, don’t always nail era, tilly grimes.)eliza hopes janice ally. janice, halfheartedly gaslighting her, hopes eliza tone down. doesn’t, that’s fun ms. rebeck’s revenge fantasy, lets one hook bad behavior.the cast impressive assemblage talent, ms. rodriguez ms. helgenberger fine. oddly, though, flashiest roles belong men: showboating worm weber and, especially, toxic stu — hardly villain here, one power, relishes abusing it.playing stu tricky challenge mr. young expertly meets, giving comic performance enough bite can’t dismiss stu buffoon. body language — way cringes not-so-mock fear talks eliza — like cry straight psyche.but ben (jim parrack), project leader firm, insidiously harmful. casual sexist, he’s also pragmatist, good work principal concern. knows eliza could help that, he’s kind guy make waves. instead goes along.in production’s bi-level set, narelle sissons, get cross-section view office. lumber metal seams exposed edges, see structure built. it’s metaphor ms. rebeck’s play does: rips away smooth surfaces lays bare skeleton, it’s plain rot bones.
debating whether reptiles amphibians house pets reclining laptop couch brooklyn, searched “buy lizard online” clicked first link. filled cart flying dragon, couple caimans, red-eared slider turtle, poison dart frog albino garter snake.i agreed terms conditions, certifying knew laws governing reptile ownership (it illegal reptiles new york), understood exceptions baby turtles (i still don’t), wouldn’t hold company responsible.now provide credit-card number new pets would delivered doorstep next day.that impulsively buy reptile — hundreds time — without fully understanding i’m getting startling experts concerned animal welfare. part growing debate whether it’s appropriate keep reptiles amphibians pets.at first, justification seems simple: keep animal happy healthy proper food housing, shouldn’t matter it’s dog, lizard cat.but animals requirements widely vary. reptiles, particular concerns welfare, ecological sustainability human health.these issues examined collection articles recent issue journal veterinary record. authors hope pleas based science inform proposed restrictions keeping exotic animals pets.a century ago, could buy living lizard lapel pin, one wide variety domestic cruelties inflicted reptiles. today, people keenly conscious animal welfare, keepers breeders know nutrition husbandry reptiles amphibians.a multimillion-dollar industry emerged around caring them, many veterinarians specializing exotic pet care herpetology. addition internet, reptiles sold pet stores, flea markets, street vendors herpetology fairs.reptiles popular pets relatively quiet, odorless “compatible modern lifestyles,” said gordon burghardt, herpetologist specializes behavior university tennessee, knoxville. (as child 1950s, got start dime-store turtles lizards.)caring animals rewarding keepers, inspiring scientists, important research, may foster conservation efforts improving public perceptions reptiles like snakes, unjustly killed past, argued dr. burghardt frank pasmans, veterinarian ghent university belgium lead author review veterinary journal.while worries impact domestic reptiles human health — especially homes children people compromised immune systems — bigger concerns animal welfare ecological damage, said dr. pasmans.on journey living room, reptiles amphibians first survive unregulated sometimes illegal methods capture breeding, housing transportation.in 2014, researchers, vets animal welfare workers investigated major wholesale supplier exotic animals. eighty percent, including reptiles amphibians, sick, injured dead result overcrowding, stress, poor hygiene nutrition, cannibalism.“high mortality rates cost business, whether captured wild bred captivity,” said debbie leahy, wildlife manager humane society united states involved study.collector demand rare animals means suppliers seek threatened, new unclassified species wild, trend become problematic scientists withhold details locations species study publications fear poaching.to bypass international trade regulations, collectors may pass wild animals captive-bred. overexploitation also becomes problem demand high wild animals cheaper capture breed.captive breeding favored wild capture conservation concerns. isn’t perfect may introduce problems, like increased susceptibility disease species contributing demand animals falsely claimed captive-bred.in home, it’s hard read demands stone-faced herps evolved wild living. need proper temperature, humidity, food, lighting exercise, species-specific psychological social requirements.if meet needs, must accept pet could grow quite big live couple decades. don’t, probably die first year, like 75 percent pet reptiles amphibians brought home pets.reptiles amphibians don’t make good pets “and part pet trade,” said lorelei tibbetts, vet technician manager center avian exotic medicine new york. time, animal patients come metabolic reproductive issues related improper nutrition, husbandry life captivity.“it’s really possible us care animals order thrive live decent life,” said.people may neglect pet reptiles amphibians common pets. even best environments “will result ‘controlled deprivation’,” also case caged birds rabbits, fish tanks, wrote dr. pasmans review.just many pet owners provide high standard care dogs, cats, birds fish, possible, lot effort, properly look reptiles amphibians homes, adds. instance, bearded dragons adapt rather well captivity.clifford warwick, consulting biologist exotic animal welfare lead author viewpoint journal, said can’t provide proper care don’t know many species need. even do, misinformation internet leads pet owners astray.it’s easy buy cute pet impulse, “when people find much trouble are, turn loose,” said ms. leahy.generally, limited options dealing unwanted exotic pets means many owners release them. discarded pets wreak havoc nonnative ecosystems. red-eared slider cart mississippi huge problem europe asia.and florida dealing biggest invasive species problem planet, mostly pet trade. there, iguanas destroyed concrete infrastructure burmese pythons eaten protected common species, setting disease-spreading chain reaction.despite concerns, reptile amphibian owners aren’t going disappear sooner dog, cat bird owners.in past, people summoned emotional arguments single slick-skinned exotic pets bad reputations. animals aren’t harmful harm inherent trading them.the contributors review hope heeding scientific arguments, rules reptile ownership conceived fairly.
bridge wobbles. you. that’s trouble starts. bouncy foot bridge charming — isn’t.this case brooklyn’s squibb park bridge 2014, london’s millennium bridge 2000 long list bridges throughout history became worrisomely wobbly large crowds crossed them. authorities temporarily closed squibb park millennium bridges spent millions dollars repairs.what gives?engineers expect bridges move little cars, people wind. things get dangerous, like millennium bridge opening, blame interactions moving crowds bridges, scientists suggest study published friday journal science advances.movements bridges people feed one another, igor belykh, applied mathematician georgia state university, led study, explained. step bridge, moves little bit; adjust steady yourself. on. “however bridge starts wobbling significantly, i, pedestrian, adjust gait,” said. critical number people try find balance time movements sync up, align sway bridge. that’s things get scary.researchers attributed wobbly millennium bridge phenomenon, call phase-locking. new study confirmed challenged popular belief sway gradually grew crowd size. found wobble starts suddenly, crowd exceeds critical threshold. millennium bridge, 165 people.dr. belykh colleagues described dynamic relationships using complex mathematical models — jokingly call “crash test dummies” — hope become part industry standards. using models, engineers designers may able plug details bridge potential pedestrians figure big crowd must get bridge starts wobble.what exactly causes initial wobbling, though, something researchers still trying figure out. may something might switch gait find balance, taking wider steps, moving side side lifting legs more. describe pedestrians moving manner non-smooth oscillators models.every time step, push ground one way, other. you’re bridge, push too. causes sway. respond. sways. on. imagine whole bunch crowd — hundreds non-smooth oscillators. timing steps, force put bridge important happens wobbliness.this might also explain cases wobbly bridges didn’t show visual signs crowds syncing steps, like clifton suspension bridge bristol, england, authorities limited pedestrian traffic city’s busy annual balloon fiesta. researchers currently collaborating scientists england united states see case visual signals could help orchestrate crowd movements prevent stop bridges wobbling.but then, may think twice crossing bridge. “unfortunately, study know bridges, uncomfortable become cross,” said dr. belykh.
fred cole, leader garage-rock band dead moon, dies 69 fred cole, guitarist singer became cult hero pacific northwest music scene leader long-running garage-rock band dead moon, died thursday home clackamas, ore. 69.the cause cancer, said wife bandmate, toody cole.as grunge gold rush 1990s made stars young bands around seattle like nirvana soundgarden, mr. cole dead moon remained beloved local stars despite decades older peers.well 40s then, mr. cole regular garage-rock circuit — playing rough raw sound long predated grunge’s noisy take punk — since mid-1960s, member lollipop shoppe, minor hit 1968 “you must witch.”but dead moon various groups years, mr. cole set standard do-it-yourself perseverance. wife released records label, tombstone, dark, handmade aesthetic. even cut lacquer discs, used make vinyl records, old mono lathe home outside portland; according legend, machine used make kingsmen’s “louie louie” 1963.in scratchy wail, mr. cole led dead moon ragged, macabre-obsessed songs, like “graveyard” “dead moon night,” sounded though could made time last 50 years.from first album, “in graveyard,” 1988, disbanded 2006, dead moon stayed far radar mainstream music industry, building following around world still celebrated local heroes. besides ms. cole bass — usually credited simply toody — band included andrew loomis drums.“we felt proud here,” said dean whitmore, executive sub pop records seattle, worked dead moon 2006 compilation album, “echoes past.” “they real deal, ours.”frederick lee cole born aug. 28, 1948, tacoma, wash., moved mother las vegas, attended high school. recounted dead moon song “kicked — kicked in,” dismissed school age 16 long hair bad attitude.by already veteran bands, including lords weeds. 1966, weeds told could play yardbirds fillmore san francisco. upon arriving, ms. cole said interview, band learned invitation.intending avoid vietnam draft, young men decided drive north canada, ran gas portland. mr. cole met kathleen conner, nicknamed toody.they married june 1967. weeds, signed label strawberry alarm clock, renamed lollipop shoppe. released one album, “just colour,” following year, breaking up.in 1970s, mr. cole continued pursue music career, wife started first several retail businesses around portland, including music store called captain whizeagle’s, also began raise family. addition wife, mr. cole survived two sons, weeden shane; daughter, amanda; seven grandchildren.it ms. cole 30, years “doing domestic thing” raising children, said, husband asked play music him.“fred talked it,” said. “he sick male bass players flaky hell.”they started rats 1980, later recruited mr. loomis form dead moon. year group broke up, coles founded pierced arrows another drummer, kelly halliburton. mr. cole’s health worsening, couple officially retired performing 2016. year, mr. loomis, lymphoma, died 54.dead moon appeared “hype!,” 1996 film grunge era seattle, 2006 band got documentary, “unknown passage: dead moon story.” next year, career documented book published mississippi records, label record store portland reissuing dead moon’s catalog.as music industry descended seattle northwest early ’90s, dead moon stayed course, releasing records tombstone touring constantly.asked like older couple midst youth-driven media frenzy, ms. cole said, “most young ones hard time keeping us.”
katie lee, folk singer fought protect canyon, dies 98 katie lee, free-spirited folk singer found mission performer writer protesting loss glen canyon’s spectacular beauty dam colorado river, died nov. 1 home jerome, ariz. 98.her death confirmed kathleen williamson, executor will.“rivers lifeblood planet need flow,” ms. lee said “kickass katie lee” (2016), short biographical film beth george gage. “they don’t need dammed every 15 feet.”eloquent blissfully profane, ms. lee joined conservationists like david brower, executive director sierra club, writer edward abbey try stop construction 710-foot-high glen canyon dam northern arizona, opened 1963. became part chorus environmentalists ever since demanded canyon restored.the impediment blowing dam, would say, know how.her enchantment glen canyon began 1953 visit friends continued became river runner. adored rapids, breezes said sounded like voices speaking her. swam nude potholes waterfalls. explored 125 contoured side canyons, named (some her), one different aesthetic experience.“when drowned place, drowned whole guts,” said interview 2010 telluride mountainfilm, documentary festival. “and never forgive bastards. may rot hell.”her anger federal government, particular bureau reclamation, built glen canyon dam, fueled music made magnet filmmakers. ballads, sang rivers boatmen. protest songs, rebuked dam builders.in “colorado river songs,” album released 1964, pilloried bureau reclamation.three jeers wreck-the-nation bureaufreeloaders souls pure-owiped good lord’s work six short years.eric balken, executive director nonprofit glen canyon institute, said ms. lee important part environmental movement end life.“she converted passion canyon fiery opposition glen canyon dam,” mr. balken said telephone interview. “she conveyed canyon’s beauty essence many people nationwide.”she often referred “the desert goddess glen canyon.”once dam built, return glen canyon. loss great.“what’s left rivers, what’s left me,” said 96. “we’re probably going go together.”kathryn louise lee born oct. 23, 1919, aledo, ill. family moved tucson three months old, grew loving desert. father, zanna, architect homebuilder; mother, former ruth detwiler, decorator. mother pushed play piano. father taught hunt rabbit quail remington shotgun.earning lead high school play called “the patsy” made feel stage living room. “wow! belong!” recalled thinking 2008 oral history interview cline library northern arizona university. “i knew every line play, knew exactly do, fine.”that early acting experience led study drama university arizona. went modest career actress included roles radio shows like “the great gildersleeve” “the railroad hour,” music series starring singer gordon macrae.she found greater acclaim folk singer, developing friendships stars like burl ives, josh white ramblin’ jack elliott. mr. ives praised saying, “the best cowboy singer know girl — katie lee.” repertoire traditional folk singers 1950s: songs outlaws murder, love hate, cowboys, labor, poverty, injustice politics.but planning dam glen canyon gave particularly strong motivatation sing.“my river unjustly dammed … politically dammed,” wrote “all rivers gone” (1998), one several books wrote glen canyon. “songs river! songs protest! folk songs. holy mother!”she added: “i cause! cause didn’t center me-me-me: one asked nothing me, really, yet far mute. i’d never cause before, place, almost person, needed help.”she sing folk protest songs. recorded humorous songs psychoanalysis 1957 album “songs couch consultation.” lyrics jazz saxophonist bud freeman music leon prober, album became hit england songs became popular element act. initially rejected mr. freeman’s suggestion record songs reconsidered listening demo tapes way back trip colorado river.“the tunes catchy,” told arizona republic 1960, “so thought, ‘why not?’ ”in “stay sick are,” sang:i love streak crueltyyour psychopathic liesthe homicidal tendenciesshining eyes.she continued sing cowboys, rivers canyons. recorded album “love’s little sisters” 1975 studio ranch owned grateful dead drummer mickey hart novato, calif. time, mr. hart living working jerilyn lee brandelius, ms. lee’s stepdaughter.last month, party 98th birthday, ms. lee performed composition “song boatman.” holding birthday card, sang:today know magic callwill lead back canyon wall.and music rapids roarmake boatman’s song soul outpour.in addition ms. brandelius, ms. lee survived son, ronald eld; another stepdaughter, susie brandelius; two stepsons, ken john brandelius.her longtime partner, joey van leeuwen, met trip australia 1979, committed suicide one day death, ms. williamson said. mr. van leeuwen, filled house wood carvings birds, worried would happen ms. lee died first. “kickass katie lee,” said, “i would terrible life own.”ms. lee married least twice. divorced eugene busch jr., businessman, became widow death edwin c. brandelius jr., racecar driver track announcer.ms. lee recalled “all rivers gone” trip glen canyon 1957, year first dynamite blast initiated construction dam, took break lunch, stared river talked water.“i feel betrayed,” said. “homo sapiens! greedy pathetic fools genetic mania destroy sanctuaries feed souls. well, hell, don’t give damn we’re blotted out. don’t want part human race see pimps government whores bidding. i’d rather coyote.”
robert de cormier, arranger folk pop stars, dies 95 robert de cormier, led musical double life choral director composer classical music arranger conductor folk pop stars like harry belafonte peter, paul mary, died tuesday rutland, vt. 95.his wife, louise de cormier, said cause kidney failure.mr. de cormier spent much career behind scenes, rehearsal rooms orchestra pits manhattan. joined forces mr. belafonte arranger mr. belafonte’s album “calypso” became breakout hit 1956.but sometimes performers put spotlight. carnegie hall 1959, mr. belafonte turned calypso tune “matilda” audience singalong. got laughs and, eventually, singing called “all big spenders” “women 40” — and, one point, “the conductor.”mr. de cormier started sing, solo, mr. belafonte stopped bars.“good heavens, bob,” mr. belafonte said, lecturing him: “you must learn. can’t turn back masses, man. turn about. face them.”mr. de cormier ordered, laughter applause audience, sang:ma-til-da,ma-til-da,ma-til-da, take money run venezuela.the audience applauded finished gave next downbeat.peter, paul mary tried hire mr. de cormier next year, starting out. “bob first choice,” noel paul stookey — paul world — recalled 2016, “and didn’t get him.” busy working mr. belafonte. also signed musical director “the happiest girl world,” broadway musical lyrics e. y. harburg music jacques offenbach.he became peter, paul mary’s music director 1970s, writing vocal lines peter yarrow, mr. stookey mary travers improvised rehearsal. explaining way worked, ms. travers said 2002, “what do, it’s kind like bunch people cooking together.”mr. de cormier said interview last year “when got something liked,” put paper, “because didn’t, next day start again.”mr. stookey called mr. de cormier group’s “recording secretary.” mr. yarrow, called fourth member peter, paul mary said role invaluable “none us musically articulate enough write down.“i could laboriously, whiz,” mr. yarrow said. “he could hear everything time. could feel point view, helped us find identity, attempt say, ‘o.k., here’s arrangement, it.’ knew authentic way us person, singing parts other.”mr. de cormier worked peter, paul mary continuing director new york choral society, position taken 1970.sometimes conduct group. sometimes conducted everyone, december 1970, taught audience philharmonic hall lincoln center sing 10 measures “beatus vir,” setting psalm 112 vivaldi.sometimes brought stars knew popular music choral society, persuaded mr. belafonte narrator first new york performance “moralities,” hans werner henze, setting “morality plays” w. h. auden based aesop’s fables. time time peter, paul mary also appeared choral society.mr. de cormier retired society 1987 later helped found vermont symphony orchestra chorus, influence new york group continues. associate conductor, michael a. ciavaglia, wrote doctoral dissertation university cincinnati college-conservatory music “the choral music robert de cormier” 2013.robert romeo de cormier jr. born jan. 7, 1922, farmingdale, n.y., long island. father teacher. mother, former selma stigberg, musician.the family moved poughkeepsie, n.y., took trumpet 7. played dance band two years colby college waterville, me., transferred university new mexico. studied music joined army world war ii.his prospects postwar career performer, least trumpet, dashed struck mortar shell europe, served infantry. wrist hurt explosion, underwent 13 operations repair it.mr. de cormier said last year considered becoming union organizer deciding music entering juilliard school.after accompanying paul robeson upper west side one night 1950, met woman would marry, louise dobbs. addition wife, survived daughter, robin; two grandchildren; two great-grandchildren. son, christopher, died 1977. mr. de cormier wife lived belmont, vt., since 1977.but used name worked broadway shows 1950s ’60s, listed credits number belafonte’s recordings name robert corman.“mccarthy responsible name change,” mr. de cormier said, referring senator joseph r. mccarthy explaining stage name way protecting mr. belafonte amid blacklisting 1950s. “i told harry didn’t want jeopardize way. many lists.” joined communist party young man, said.peter, paul mary knew mr. de cormier ms. travers, died 2009. student little red school house, progressive school greenwich village mr. de cormier taught worked mr. belafonte. “mary used wax him,” mr. stookey said last year.but mr. de cormier said expect become famous music.“i gifted students — couple pianists really excellent one composer,” said. “mary kind surprise.”
love ‘the simpsons’? let’s talk apu los angeles — “i hate apu,” actor kal penn says new documentary penny-pinching, squishee-slinging, thickly accented convenience store owner one celebrated tv shows history. “and that, dislike ‘the simpsons.’”the feelings south asian americans toward character show inhabits focus “the problem apu,” documentary debuting nov. 19 trutv. brainchild actor standup comic hari kondabolu, lifelong lover “the simpsons,” film wrestles show praised incisive humor — years, explored issues like homophobia political corruption — could resort charged stereotype. making matters worse fact indian character voiced non-indian (albeit emmy-winning) actor, hank azaria.“everything apu like running joke,” mr. kondabolu, 35, said phone interview. “and running joke he’s indian.”mr. kondabolu, grew queens, son indian immigrants, knows show’s history (the longest-running american sitcom), many awards (32 primetime emmys), international adoring fan base. “i’m comedian going biggest comedy show time,” said.the documentary grew five-minute piece mr. kondabolu performed fx series “totally biased w. kamau bell” 2012. mindy kaling become first indian-american star series (“the mindy project”), mr. kondabolu thought he’d use breakthrough talk apu, south asian stereotypes struggles indians hollywood. successful standup appeared letterman jimmy kimmel shows heckled bigoted taunts performances, knew subject.but topic seemed corny overworked him. took concerns mr. bell, however, show host puzzled. “i like, no, one’s talking this,” mr. bell said phone interview. “do mean like pieces south asian community done apu? that’s hari went, oh yeah, you’re right.”the piece touched nerve audiences, one-minute section apu people remembered. make full-length documentary issues kwik-e-mart owner, mr. kondabolu thought, could serve jumping-off point talk things comic stewing about?working director michael melamedoff, film crew began production april 2016, greenlit trutv part shift comedy programming. tackle project, enlisted high-powered help. one sequence, actor aziz ansari (“master none”) describes car dad man drives asks nearest quik-e-mart is. dr. vivek murthy, 19th surgeon general united states, talks enduring taunts apu-imitating bully seventh grade. maulik pancholy (“30 rock”) recounts much hated going 7-eleven stores kid, lest friends see indian store clerk start “the apu thing.”in film, mr. kondabolu places apu within broader history hollywood’s depiction indians, including peter sellers’s brownface rendition idiot 1968 blake edwards film “the party” indians feasting chilled monkey brains steven spielberg’s “indiana jones temple doom.” also reached who’s-who south asian actors talk experiences hollywood, vein philip kan gotanda’s 1987 play “yankee dawg die” mr. ansari’s 2015 “master none” episode “indians tv.”among anecdotes: sakina jaffrey (“house cards”) cornering market “weeping, ethnic moms potential rapists murderers,” mr. penn asked play character named taj mahal, credits subsequent starring roles “harold kumar” movies. “for record,” mr. penn said interview, “i great time it.”the narrative spine film, however, chronicles mr. kondabolu’s attempts trace character’s origin story secure interview mr. azaria, voice apu since character’s creation 1990.in 2007 interview, mr. azaria, declined comment article, conceded rendering indian accent “not tremendously accurate.” mr. kondabolu agrees. film, describes mr. azaria’s rendition “a white guy impression white guy making fun father.”onscreen, dana gould, writer executive producer “the simpsons,” tries explain makes apu humorous. barney, town wino, funny he’s drunkard, explains; smithers, mr. burns’s sycophantic assistant, funny he’s closeted. (since interview, smithers come out.) apu? he’s funny sounds like indian, least mr. azaria’s version one. “there accents nature, white americans, speak experience, sound funny,” mr. gould says film.“this isn’t blind spot writers had,” mr. melamedoff said. “this blind spot had, national level.”the unintended result: generation indian actors asked channel apu countless auditions. “here are, you’ve gone theater film school, you’re pursuing dream, you’re told, like apu ‘the simpsons,’” mr. penn said interview.still unclear originally pushed apu’s broad accent. mr. azaria asked producers “how offensive make it,” claimed earlier interview? come accent unprompted, “simpsons” writer mike reiss said 2016 podcast?mr. kondabolu pressed mr. azaria interview. two exchanged emails, one phone conversation (untaped) even discussed possibility conducting interview neutral ground (on podcast “wtf marc maron,” say, npr’s “fresh air,” terry gross).“hari sort like, what’s purpose can’t get hank,” said utkarsh ambudkar (“pitch perfect”), who, apu’s indian-american nephew 2016 episode series, blasted apu animated face sellout stereotype.“and like, kidding me?” mr. ambudkar said. “you got brown people come together talk something. could talking model trains! 15-year-old kid going like, look powerful, talented, visible brown people one place. this, too.”
ending medical tax break could ‘gut punch’ middle class suzanne hollack tried care husband home diagnosed frontotemporal dementia age 69. got point couldn’t take shower fear would stray house.so 18 months ago, moved memory care community near home scottsdale, az., like long-term care, covered medicare. that, plus medical expenses, cost couple $90,000 last year.“these expenses place huge burden retirement savings,” said mrs. hollack, whose husband, harry, managed operations semiconductor companies. “losing tax deduction becomes double burden.”the republican tax overhaul bill introduced house last week would eliminate deduction, allows people itemize federal income taxes deduct medical expenses exceed 10 percent total income. change part broad effort rewrite tax code way republicans say simpler fairer. party framed tax plan boon middle class, eliminating medical-expense deduction would hit middle class squarely, eliminating source relief helped millions people cope steep medical costs country without comprehensive, universal health coverage.republicans say deduction affects relatively people — 8.8 million 150 million taxpayers last year — bill whole would benefit families lowering tax rates increasing standard deduction lieu itemizing.“this bill helps americans keep money earn expenses arise throughout lives — medical bills — rather providing myriad provisions many americans may use lifetimes, go hassle frustration itemizing,” said lauren aronson, spokeswoman house ways means committee.according analysis january joint committee taxation, taxpayers claim deduction incomes $100,000, 40 percent $75,000. half claim older 65, according aarp, lobby older americans. often face staggering medical long-term care costs.the deduction also helps younger families struggling pay enormous cost caring children chronic conditions disabilities, couples going costly fertility treatments like vitro fertilization. interviews, claimed said deduction difference allowing afford mental health care, new chemotherapy drugs, cancer surgeries doctors fall outside insurance networks.“i understand order get tax reform need ‘pay fors,’ getting revenues families hardest hit high cost medical conditions like autism cancer seems bit like targeting hurricane victims potential source revenue,” said john rodakis, 48, dallas, son autism runs nonprofit foundation devoted autism research.the joint committee estimated deduction medical expenses would cost federal government $10 billion next year, eliminated. far less two big deductions republican bill would preserve: one interest paid home mortgages expected cost $63.6 billion, one charitable donations, $47.8 billion. taxpayers claiming deductions incomes $100,000.taxpayers claimed total $87 billion medical costs deduction 2015, according internal revenue service. increase standard deduction would nearly make that, tax experts said. average medicare beneficiary, example, pays $5,680 year out-of-pocket costs, according aarp.last year heather block, 54, deducted $9,349 medical expenses. career freelance international aid worker, carried two health insurance policies. got breast cancer six years ago, said, “it wouldn’t dawned people medical expenses.”her cancer stage 4. one month year, said, oral chemotherapy alone $4,000. “i feel like i’ve running contest since got cancer,” said, “am going use savings go bankrupt going die first?”while affordable care act expanded coverage millions americans limited out-of-pocket costs, many, like ms. block, still face large expenses insurance cover.“it’s like backstop, time health care system covers everybody everything, we’re going need backstop,” said alexandra thornton, senior director tax policy liberal-leaning center american progress. “that’s thing deductions, recognize sometimes people situation it’s harder pay taxes. harder defend, one easier ones.”lisa peter witzler’s second son, jackson, born spina bifida, defect caused spinal cord close womb. fifth month life, he’d spent three months hospital — six weeks neonatal intensive care — parents spent money planned put toward day care.doctors recommended private nursing jackson severe sleep apnea would repeatedly stop breathing turn blue. insurance would cover it.“we didn’t time prepare save anything,” said mr. witzler, union organizer.the family, lives montgomery village, md., $25,000 unreimbursed medical expenses last year. able deduct expenses, witzlers said, difference son getting treatment now, needing public services later life.“it’s misnomer,” said ms. witzler, works federal government conflict resolution. “the idea extra things, it’s deducting things essential necessary.”adrienne lynch, 34 lives austin, tex., undergoing vitro fertilization second time year. “we spent around $43,586, won’t last 2017,” said. ms. lynch, manages regional media advocacy american cancer society cancer action network, said deduction, would lower taxable income $20,000, would help rebuild emergency savings husband spent fertility treatments year.“to go gut punch,” said.robert graboyes, senior research fellow mercatus center george mason university, said plan eliminate deduction “part larger deal one way pay broad tax cuts large part population ending variety small ones. guess needed revenue way it.”but eliminating deduction could hasten speed older americans spend savings go medicaid, far greater expense federal government.“already i’m dip severely whatever i’ve saved,” said jennifer clark, 76, falls church, va. multiple sclerosis form blood cancer, insurance covers chemotherapy medications, pays pocket part-time aides, dental care, portion physical therapy, medications continuing care retirement community lives in.“if lose ability deduct state income taxes,” ms. clark said, “we talking wiped out.”
pesticides get flesh fruits vegetables? q. pesticides get flesh conventional fruits vegetables like cantaloupe, apples cucumbers?a. pesticides sprayed fruits vegetables accumulate outer peel skin, skin form impermeable barrier, pesticides actually designed absorbed tissue fruit vegetable protect pests penetrate skin suck liquid insidethicker peels may effective keeping pesticides flesh fruits like cantaloupe, said lili he, assistant professor food science university massachusetts, amherst, studied best methods washing chemical pesticide residues apples.if you’re trying prioritize fruits vegetables buy organic, check environmental working group’s list so-called “dirty dozen” “clean fifteen,” well consumer reports’ always buy organic list. make recommendations based tests pesticide residues fruits vegetables, done united states department agriculture produce washed.cantaloupe “clean fifteen” list, meaning relatively low levels pesticide residues.apples, hand, “dirty dozen,” meaning they’re high pesticides, ranking fourth contaminated strawberries, spinach nectarines. cucumbers barely escaped “dirty dozen,” ranking 13th top pesticide residues.if buy conventional apples, wash solution baking soda water. recent study dr. he, published journal agricultural food chemistry, found baking soda solution effective either plain water bleach solution removing pesticide residues surface peels, fruit immersed 15 minutes rinsed.even then, washing didn’t remove pesticide residues penetrated deep peel peel flesh fruit. peeling might effective, researchers said, would involve loss nutrients skin.cucumbers apples covered natural protective layer wax, pesticides diffuse layer, rinsing becomes harder, said dr. jeffrey jenkins, director national pesticide information center. distributors apply yet another layer wax fruits vegetables preserve shipping, said, “that kind seals residues, washing world probably isn’t going much effect removing them.”do health question? ask well
edwidge danticat: dawn tempests heading grenada time island hosting state tourism industry conference, one region’s largest gatherings subject. though conference planned hurricanes irma maria devastated many caribbean islands whose economies rely heavily tourism, timing seemed prescient. indeed, conference program scrolled plane discussions focused disaster preparedness well recovery rebuilding. going conference though, tourism expert.the people sitting either side plane tourism experts either. tourists, two young american couples honeymoons. listening exchange wedding stories, turned poet essayist audre lorde’s “grenada revisited: interim report,” essay wrote weeks 1983 united states’ invasion parents’ homeland.i read lorde’s essay many times — it’s last chapter seminal 1984 collection “sister outsider”— wanted read seeing grenada first time.that landed maurice bishop international airport, named former prime minister grenada assassinated six days start u.s. invasion, might intrigued lorde. felt begin journey walked airplane steps, sun sparkling bright caribbean, beaming face.“the first time came grenada came seeking ‘home,’” began lorde’s essay 1978 visit. flown closed pearl’s airport grenville northeastern coast island. back then, one paved road, reported. now, many smooth winding ones lively neighborhoods well tree-covered hills.among lorde’s striking recollections seeing grand anse beach, hotel-lined miles white sand attract locals tourists, busy thoroughfare runs alongside it.she saw: “children proper school uniforms carrying shoes, trying decide lure coco palm adventure one side delicious morning sea other.”i, too, saw children, dozens either side street one morning. children wore traditional uniforms, white shirts blouses plaid skirts dark khaki shorts pants. huddled together chatting giggling, paying attention dark blue sea one side colorfully painted houses buildings hills other. children reminded children would see heading school native haiti, caribbean islands, range black brown skin glistening sun. older ones kept younger siblings side, even climbed public transportation minivans buses.i went search “vivid images” lorde’s essay and, besides school children grand anse beach, fat woman-who-fries-fish-in-the-market. see inside turquoise-and-white square building downtown. standing near massive fish laid slabs waiting gutted. smaller ones piled buckets front.the fish market smelled predictably like sea. buzz customer buyer exchanges lot subdued expected. vendors customers. market’s relative calm friday afternoon reminded small grenada is. island 120 square miles 100,000 residents.that night pondering hotel room coyaba beach resort, parted curtains looked full moon turn beach outside “flash green.” october perhaps wrong time year this. lorde seen sand turn green april. full moon, slept sliding door terrace open could hear waves gently grazing shore.i good tourist. easily evoke worse case scenario type travel situation. immigrant guilt taking time off. bad swimmer. self-conscious bathing suits, tourism done books. writing, invited quite places whenever go.i grenada, largely unaffected hurricanes, receive honorary degree university west indies open campus. unlike u.w.i.’s brick mortar campuses, open campus virtual one. 657 students graduating class hailed english-speaking caribbean. earned degrees online. 139 graduates would cross stage though.not graduates always travel open campus ceremonies, hosts university west indies told me. however, year students wanted come graduation grenada could not. graduates travel countries open campus ceremony, takes place different location year. many homes damaged destroyed. lost loved ones along everything owned.i told story one graduate trinidad stayed home donated plane ticket money relief efforts dominica, u.w.i.’s devastated campus. students campus still unaccounted for.hurricane maria struck dominica, southernmost leeward islands category 5 storm sept. 18. dominica’s prime minister, roosevelt skerrit, whose roof collapsed storm, later told cnn: “our agriculture sector 100 percent destroyed. tourism is, would say, 95 percent destroyed.”in front supermarket across coyaba beach resort blue barrels lined collect food urgently needed supplies dominica. beach house restaurant, north airport, attended pre-graduation cocktail party night ceremony, young female singer entertaining us classic soul, well caribbean covers, reminded everyone drop something basket would usually hold tips. time funds would go dominica.i never dominica wish had. born desire see place “before.” devastation, storm. place, haiti, constantly evokes nostalgia people seen it, lived it, loved “before.”this longing always saddens makes present seem even worse. still wish seen dominica before, part birthplace one favorite novelists, jean rhys. places antoinette, rhys’ doomed narrator “wide sargasso sea,” longs flaming sunsets rivers clear see pebbles bottom. moss-covered gardens filled orchids, hibiscus flamboyants, illuminated night fireflies.this one ways imagined dominica, along seen travel guides: high mountain peaks, forts, lush rain forests, reefs, gorges, lakes water falls.dominica also home xuela claudette richardson, narrator jamaica kincaid’s novel “the autobiography mother.” 15, xuela taken father roseau, capital dominica. roseau, xuela finds — like lot places caribbean — “had fragile foundation, time time destroyed forces nature, hurricane water coming sky suddenly sea heavens below.”“the second time came grenada,” audre lorde wrote “grenada revisited,” “i came mourning fear land learning savaged, invaded, people maneuvered saying thank invaders.”lorde’s second visit late 1983, u.s. president ronald reagan deployed marines island. reagan declared wanted prevent “soviet-cuban” colony taking root grenada protect american citizens island, many students st. george’s university school medicine.i visited st. george’s university, whose students officials, lorde pointed out, later denied ever danger. school, longer medical school, also covers disciplines, island unto itself, many salmon-colored buildings, massive water tanks, security personnel buses. campus breathtaking views true blue bay, point caribbean sea atlantic ocean meet.if reagan interested seeing democracy flourish caribbean, lorde wondered, u.s. government support haiti’s jean-claude duvalier repressive regime? also mentioned puerto rico.in 1897, wrote, “u.s. marines landed puerto rico fight spanish-american war. never left.”puerto rico devastated hurricanes irma maria dominica, barbuda u.s. virgin islands. puerto rico either. visited books, particularly eyes young esmeralda santiago memoir, “when puerto rican.”i imagined guavas taught readers eat beginning book longer able grow, fields came deep countryside flattened, families farmed struggling stay alive without food clean water.i watched interview tireless mayor san juan, carmen yulín cruz soto, heard echoes audre lorde voice.“there nothing unites people anywhere world injustice,” mayor said. “we get food, get water else condemned slow death. may easy try disregard us. may easy u.s. territory colony united states. we’re people, damn it.”the blessings islands also curse. geography gives us year-round sun beautiful beaches, age climate change, front line destruction.“we people” seems saying generations colonizers invaders seemed intent destroying us. ever, mother nature, too.we people, arawaks taínos might said, even died trying prove it. even inherited word hurricane, huracán, them.“much terribly lost grenada,” lorde wrote end 1983 visit, “but — spirit people.”the spirit people also captured poem carrying years coming grenada. written grenadian poet short story writer merle collins.“we speak,” wrote “because dawn breaks,” “for reason thunder frightens childthat lightning startles tree …”the people caribbean speak, poet wrote, “were bornto vassals.”________________________
7 cyber monday travel deals cyber monday, nov. 27 year, isn’t day score discounts retail goods — world travel, means attractive deals hotel stays, safaris, group tours more.but buy caution, said travel industry analyst henry harteveldt, founder atmosphere research group. “travel brands discount throughout year make sure sale you’re considering really good one,” said.here seven offers may entice book next vacation.guests cloister sea island, sea island, ga., book two nights jan. 2 feb. 28, get 90 percent third night, breakfast 10 percent discount activities. nightly rates start $395. book seaisland.com.the home rental company oasis offering $200 stay $50 drinks snacks (and free housekeeping) one properties 22 destinations, including paris, miami cartagena. stays must nov. 27, 2017 nov. 27, 2019. book oasiscollections.com, use code digitalgetdown.from nov. 27 dec. 4, 12 properties make viceroy hotel group offer nightly rates discount 30 40 percent travel nov. 27, 2017 december 2018 (the exact date ranges vary property). viceroy central park, new york, example, offering 40 percent nightly rates; usual rates start $275, cyber week discount, begin $195. book viceroyhotelsandresorts.com.the safari outfitter andbeyond offering 30 percent one four small group journeys 2018 (each journey multiple departure dates), including mobile camping trip botswana photography safari kenya. itineraries range five nights two weeks. rates discount begin $4,030 person, discount, starting rate $2,821 person. book andbeyond.com.grace bay club, turks caicos, offering 35 percent nightly rates. junior suite, example, usually begins $720, discount, drops $468. stay includes breakfast, nonmotorized watersports afternoon tea wine. travel must nov. 27, 2017 dec. 19, 2018. book gracebayresorts.com.the tour operator friendly planet travel offering $1,100 per person 68 tours 2018 40 countries, including portugal, china, south africa peru. sale lasts nov. 28. 14-day best kenya tanzania tour, example, $4,599 person — savings $900. trips include airfare, accommodations, meals guided tours. book friendlyplanet.com.expedia several cyber monday deals: noon 7 p.m. e.s.t., nightly rates select hotels 90 percent expedia’s app select hotels site offering 50 percent nightly rates (around 2,000 hotels total participating, exact number change every hour). also, day, expedia.com offering $100 $1,000 travel packages giving $100 credit hotel stay travelers book cruise site.
joe biden talks new memoir, ‘promise me, dad’ joe biden’s new memoir, “promise me, dad,” time — sweep fullness. instead written fearsome ticktock seconds, minutes hours backs wall, obstacles faced.in substance, classic “year life” memoir. book starts thanksgiving 2014 covers three signal story lines next year: grueling illness death elder son, beau, brain cancer 46; difficult decision pursue democratic nomination president 2016; welcome workload vice president, particularly foreign crises iraq, ukraine central america.scene scene, biden toggles briskly among three story lines: emotional family meeting m.d. anderson cancer center houston, urgent phone call iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi islamic state, friendly lunch president obama, tactfully trying discourage vice president pursuing democratic nomination. leaping strand strand, biden creates propulsive energy distinct hope things may turn differently — better — know will.“promise me, dad” may probing president obama’s bildungsroman, “dreams father,” thoroughly thorough (at 494 pages) hillary clinton’s “what happened.” impressive terms. section section, biden splices heartbreaking story election story foreign affairs story. doing, offers something everyone, matter strand draws in.of course, centerpiece book biden’s unflinching account death son, two-term attorney general major national guard deployed iraq 2008. here, biden exudes everyman quality that’s display 40 years public life. shares grief, knowing everyone grieves. ultimately, message this: engaging life, bewildering may seem tragedy, thrive again.last month, biden sat book-lined study home leafy neighborhood wilmington, del., discuss memoir, published nov. 14.philip galanes: write book? tear heart open again?joe biden: kids. look, two beautiful grandchildren. thousand pictures around. year, building home, lived here: beau, [his wife] hallie two kids. wish they’d never moved. died, kids would come bed lie chest: “pop, tell stories daddy.” “tell one fell tree.” “tell one guy went daddy, uncle hunt beat up.”pg: planning book, authors memoirs, books loss spoke you?jb: no. didn’t want like anyone else. i’m facetious. didn’t want write book grief. didn’t want anyone feeling sorry me. wanted celebrate beau’s life people touched. beau strict code honor. may sound silly, it’s true. dad expression: “never explain never complain.” never heard beau complain. once.when brother sister, hunter ashley, stood give eulogies, don’t know it, i’ve never prouder life. hunter, who’s beautiful writer, said: “my first memory beau 3 years old.” hospital [following death mother baby sister car accident]. hunt skull fracture, almost every bone body broken. beau, 4, next bed, held hand kept saying: “hunt, love you. look me. love you, love you, love you.” funeral hunt said 42 years “he never stopped holding hand.”i want readers know people like beau world, put country first, family first, friends first.pg: let’s talk structure book. keep three narrative strands running throughout text.jb: time: seconds, minutes, hours — months years. either going beat beau’s illness not, narrow window. assignments white house similar. weren’t managing relationships; crisis management. prime minister abadi didn’t reach deal sunnis, government would implode. got minutes phone calls seconds.pg: famous talker, it’s taut book.jb: well, there’s difference talking writing. i’m talking someone who’s looking something — assurance help, take position — try engage them. draw talking, listening they’re saying they’re saying. book, disciplined bring strands together. wanted make points crisply could.pg: there’s beautiful line book: “my story precedes me.”jb: does. look, top world 1972. sister managed senate campaign pulled improbable upset. i’m washington, hiring staff, get call young woman says: “your wife daughter terrible accident. come home.” said, “she’s dead.” said yes. so, know stages grief, like lot people. pain, sense hopelessness, recovery, it’s time.pg: there’s undertow every page, knowledge we’re suffering. predate 1972?jb: used bad stutterer. everybody thinks know irish poets i’m irish. know uncle, educated bachelor lived us, on. volume yeats. used get night put flashlight mirror, practicing practicing, reading aloud books. everybody burden carry.pg: maybe that’s strands book bleed together? one beau’s doctor visits goes well, there’s optimism carries next section iraq.jb: wanted write precisely crises dilemmas faced intersected moment. wanted show ebb flow life, nothing totally separable. much try compartmentalize, you’re one phase life washes affects others.pg: occasionally, crosscutting made think you’d actually cheat death, beau would live.jb: oh! praying working believing. i’ve always optimist. couple cranial aneurysms [in 1988] doctor’s giving less even chances living, still talking everything going o.k.pg: several times, beau says: don’t look sad, dad. or: promise you’ll o.k., dad. ever let comfort him?jb: one night, clear odds weren’t good, asked stay dinner house, mile here. said: “dad, know love anyone world. promise you’ll o.k. i’ll o.k., dad.” come face face mortality. watched go loss mother sister. didn’t want turn inward. didn’t want give robustness life.pg: reluctant confide president obama beau.jb: complex. didn’t want carry burden feeling sorry me. several times, talked beau, started sobbing, console him. didn’t want put that, responsibility back. also didn’t want people would do, staff wanted do: joe less. more. diaries. i’m able write express emotions fairly well. completely honest diaries.pg: let’s turn 2016 election. write president obama pretty discouraging running democratic nomination. book also say race coming you: badly beaten middle class, populism, authenticity.jb: people don’t realize beau essentially diagnosed death sentence 2013. virtually nobody makes it. obligation tell president duties. so, knew going on. late 2014, walking lunch, barack said: “joe, power appointment, i’d appoint president. agree issues, know leadership skills, think you’d best president.” pressures. felt them, too. say “i going run,” face data that’s coming saying, it. said that, everybody would known something wrong beau. would violated commitment keep secret. piece complicated passed, clear really wanted run.pg: sons wanted run.jb: believe beau, looking down, understands didn’t run, accepts it. beau, hunt ashley didn’t want stepping back. thought limited talents may suited winning decades earlier exactly public looking now.pg: there’s scene book hillary clinton comes visit see you’re planning run president. write propelled forces entirely making. mean?jb: think wanted president would good president. also understand difficult life going be, would vilified. hillary also driven need empower women. known long time, can’t believe didn’t think: young women world think walk away?pg: we’re dug divided now. really think president biden could make difference?jb: obvious answer is: don’t know. always good bringing people together. trying understand person’s perspective, trying figure get “go.” skill always useful, higher premium don’t work together much. that’s wrote book beau. wanted people see honorable political life be. many chances advance — offered senate seat came back iraq — wouldn’t take it. wanted earn it. beau’s ambition man always duty.
krysten ritter: book actress author thriller, “bonfire,” can’t read set “jessica jones”: “it crazy exciting! it’s reading environment.”what books nightstand?i huge pile next bed dream days pick one devour them! signed copy “the lying game,” ruth ware, next deck. underneath copies “the sirens titan,” kurt vonnegut, “in cold blood,” truman capote, long list. also currently leafing stack meditation books bought meditation studio like. “wherever go, are,” “zen flesh, zen bones.”what’s last great book read?i read great novels recently, one stuck last months “eleanor oliphant completely fine,” gail honeyman. made laugh, made cry, entire time beamed joy beauty story. fell love eleanor never wanted book end. wanted badly keep following journey.i also loved “unshakeable,” tony robbins. understanding economy, stock market world investing foreign me, tony makes digestible empowering. really appreciate focus finding confidence ideas importance building forward momentum. crush tony robbins passion, empathy sheer talent.what read solace? escape? sheer pleasure?for solace, love book opens perspective. day realized buy new copy “the untethered soul,” michael a. singer, every city visit. don’t know it’s forget already need i’m road missing home. least four copies. also love singer’s audio lectures, even put background. escape, love popcorn thrillers read weekend, like “sharp objects” “the woman cabin 10.” pure pleasure, love good rock ‘n’ roll/rock bio oral history. recently read “meet bathroom,” lizzy goodman, follows strokes, interpol whole early 2000s nyc rock scene. much fun relive incredible time music, particularly admit.what favorite books acting hollywood? favorite acting books stella adler’s “the art acting” “sanford meisner acting.” writers – novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets – working today admire most? right now, admire writers “jessica jones.” melissa rosenberg team, level material write me, imaginations consistently blow away. full attention admiration right now.how like read? paper electronic? one book time simultaneously? morning night? like reading set?i can’t read set much stay focused on. often hear people set living “hurry wait” kind work life. me, specifically “jessica jones,” it’s like “hurry hurry up.” get fully immersed day every day crazy exciting! it’s reading environment. set, anything, i’ll knit it’s mechanical, meditation doesn’t pull focus work. terms read, hard copy way. love book hand. already many digital distractions lives me, reading screen getting alerts text messages totally ruins it. like read park, like get bed early, get cozy get lost good book.what book might people surprised find shelves?stacks knitting crochet books. what’s best book you’ve ever received gift?“don’t forget sing lifeboats,” kathryn ross petras. friend gave kind life-changing. little book inspirational quotes wisdom, it’s pick-me-up read pages day. i’ve since given gift times often post pages instagram stories. people seem love it!what kind reader child? childhood books authors stick most?i wasn’t big reader kid often think that. told poor reading comprehension, recognize true all. wasn’t interested given wild imagination sit still long enough unless something really loved. didn’t fit box. so, think it’s important encourage kids read whatever interests them, outside what’s curriculum.you’re organizing literary dinner party. three writers, dead alive, invite?gillian flynn, hemingway, stephen king. feel like one would know say other, fun?who would want write life story? think would feel comfortable writing own.
six myths choosing college major many colleges ask choose major early senior year high school, admissions application. yet there’s good chance you’ll change mind. education department says 30 percent students switch majors least once.students get plenty advice picking major. turns out, though, family friends, according september gallup survey. 11 percent sought guidance high school counselor, 28 percent college adviser. didn’t think advice especially helpful. maybe it’s much conventional thinking majors wrong.it’s true computer science engineering top pay rankings, salaries within specific majors vary greatly.“students parents pretty good idea majors pay most, poor sense magnitude differences within major,” said douglas a. webber, associate professor economics temple university studies earnings academic field. points one example: top quarter earners majored english make lifetimes bottom quarter chemical engineers.but never make top pay scale? even english history graduates make median lifetime earnings major pretty well compared typical graduates business stem field.take median lifetime earnings business majors, popular undergraduate degree. typical graduate earns $2.86 million lifetime. put business graduates side side graduated considered low-paying majors, you’ll see slightly median salary fields far behind business grads. example, english major 60th percentile makes $2.76 million lifetime, major psychology $2.57 million history major $2.64 million.women clear majority college campuses, making 56 percent students enrolled fall. also likely men graduate.but comes selecting major, women choose tends segregate lower paying fields, education social services, according report georgetown university’s center education workforce publish later year. look highest paying fields proportion women major them: business economics (31 percent), chemical engineering (28 percent), computer science (20 percent), electrical engineering (10 percent), mechanical engineering (8 percent).“women can’t win even dominate every level higher education,” said anthony p. carnevale, director georgetown center.dr. carnevale wouldn’t speculate women make choices. notes proportion women fields men dominate increased 10 percent, gender pay gap would narrow considerably: 78 cents paid women every dollar men receive 90 cents every dollar men receive.not so. seven states — arkansas, colorado, minnesota, tennessee, texas, virginia washington — students search public databases early earnings graduates institutions within state. databases show students graduate selective schools tend make money. all, better college, better professional network opportunities, alumni, parents classmates eventually classmates themselves.these undergraduates able pursue majors lower paying fields networks help land good jobs. arts, humanities social science majors prevalent elite campuses second-tier colleges, students tend pick vocational majors like business, education health. all, half students less selective schools major career-focused subjects; elite schools, less quarter do, according analysis website fivethirtyeight 78 “most selective schools” barron’s rankings, compared 1,800 “less selective schools.”“students selective colleges allowed explore intellectual curiosity undergraduates get job training graduate school access network gets top jobs, regardless undergraduate major,” dr. carnevale said.they also likely two majors students second-tier colleges, tend financially needy work, affording less time double major.one tip: complementary majors overlapping requirements easier juggle, two unrelated majors probably yield bigger gains job market, said richard n. pitt, associate professor sociology vanderbilt university studied rise double major. “it increases breadth knowledge,” said.the liberal arts favorite target politicians, latest salvo coming governor kentucky, matt bevin. “if you’re studying interpretive dance, god bless you, there’s lot jobs right america looking people skill set,” governor bevin said speech september.interpretive dance may demand, competencies liberal arts majors emphasize — writing, synthesis, problem solving — sought employers. 2017 study david j. deming, associate professor education economics harvard, found jobs requiring so-called soft skills thinking skills seen largest growth employment pay last three decades.one knock liberal arts it’s difficult find first job. study burning glass technologies, boston-based company analyzes job-market trends, concluded liberal arts graduates gain proficiency one eight technical skills, social media data analysis, prospects landing entry-level jobs increase substantially.the long-held belief parents students liberal arts graduates unemployable ignores reality modern economy, jobs require mix skills easily packaged college major, said george anders, author “you anything: surprising power ‘useless’ liberal arts education.” book, mr. anders profiles graduates degrees philosophy, sociology linguistics jobs diverse sales, finance market research.“once c.e.o.s see liberal arts graduates action,” mr. anders said, “they come aboard idea need them.”why settle field study experiencing smorgasbord college offer, study abroad, club activity surprising elective?of students said felt committed major arrived campus, 20 percent selected new major end first year, according national survey university california, los angeles.changing majors cost semester two, especially switch one unrelated first choice. reduce risk, several schools, including arizona state university, georgia state university lehman college bronx, created “meta-majors,” group majors larger academic umbrella.“we moved away trying get students choose majors enter,” said timothy renick, georgia state’s vice provost vice president enrollment management student success.instead, incoming students choose one seven meta-majors, representing large academic work force fields, business, education stem. first semester, students gather learning communities register block general-education courses within meta-major. programming designed students get know differences majors within field.“students business meta-major get understand difference finance, accounting, management marketing choose major informed perspective,” dr. renick said. usually end first year.a handful colleges, including indiana university evergreen state college, offer option ignore official list majors design course study. shortz, crossword puzzle editor times, designed indiana — enigmatology.“majors artificial restrictive,” said christine ortiz, dean massachusetts institute technology leave design new nonprofit university majors, also lectures classrooms.“majors result academic structure university, tied classic academic disciplines. reason need boxed like that. don’t take account emerging fields cross disciplines.”majors tend lag behind changes workplace. wonder fewer third college graduates work jobs related majors. picking one based today’s in-demand jobs risky, said dr. webber temple, especially occupation threatened automation.“i would argue majoring accounting,” said, “or anything computer programmed do.”
10 things know getting dream college there’s magic formula getting selective college, decade covering admissions chronicle higher education, i’ve picked thing two. takeaways, based hundreds interviews admissions deans years, may help navigate process.when colleges choose applicants, they’re juggling competing goals, like increasing diversity bringing revenue. admissions officers aren’t looking students fit one description — say, who’ve earned a’s awards. don’t take rejection personally.colleges often say want get know real you, that’s probably true academic accomplishments (and rigor courses you’ve taken) pass muster.after colleges identify big batch students outstanding credentials, differences among become important, admissions deans say. among attributes tell would like see evidence (in essays, extracurricular activities, recommendations) are: leadership, risk taking, emotional intelligence, fire learning, critical thinking, curiosity, empathy, optimism, grit, perseverance ability overcome obstacles.overwhelmed slick, boastful essays, colleges eager call “authentic” glimpses applicants — experiences, passions goals. deans believe they’ll get deeper insight alternative formats like videos, pictures, audio files documents (an advanced placement english paper, maybe). handful prestigious schools, including yale, university chicago, pomona college, reed college university rochester, recently introduced option. essays, much polish good, deans say, might think twice hiring professional videographer. yale, 400 applicants (out nearly 33,000) year’s freshman class sent something alternative format. least one case, submission — video showing leadership impact others — was, dean told me, “difference maker.”are first-generation low-income student? many colleges trying increase access, help emphasize background — personal story relates achievements — essays interviews. admissions officers thinking harder socioeconomic context, quality applicant’s high school, better understand opportunities they’ve challenges they’ve faced.at many colleges, financial circumstances comes play. able pay freight bonus. qualified students limited means might get rejected reason lack money.many selective colleges want students over, ideally 50 states. last year’s presidential election illuminated urban-rural divide, colleges trying bridge paying closer attention promising applicants less-populous areas. generally, northeastern college look favorably applicant montana equally strong one northeast.legacy status certainly helps, big-name colleges reject plenty applicants. don’t assume mom dad’s connections alone get in.a new initiative called “turning tide” urges admissions offices reward applicants sustained community service. colleges, massachusetts institute technology, taking closer look applicants done help others, neighbors family members. don’t fly belize good (admissions officers often skeptical fleeting trips). showing tutor someone library week might even impressive, rewarding.about one five colleges allot “considerable importance” “demonstrated interest,” whereby applicants convey willingness attend college they’re applying to. open emails. connect admissions officers. let know visit campus. sure first choice don’t need compare financial aid packages choose strongest expression demonstrated interest: applying early decision, binding.
endowments boom colleges bury earnings overseas 2006, endowments indiana university texas christian university invested millions dollars partnership, hoping mint riches oil, gas coal.the partnership formed houston-based quintana capital group, whose principals include donald l. evans, influential texan longtime supporter former president george w. bush. little year earlier, mr. evans left cabinet position commerce secretary.though group impressive texas pedigree, presidential cachet ambitions operations united states, new partnership established cayman islands. founders promised university nonprofit investors partnership would try avoid federal taxes exploiting loophole called “blocker corporations,” typically established tax havens around world.a trove millions leaked documents bermuda-based law firm, appleby, reflects tax wizardry used american colleges universities. schools increasingly turned secretive offshore investments, files show, let swell endowments blocker corporations, avoid scrutiny ventures involving fossil fuels issues could set campus controversy.buoyed lucrative tax breaks, college endowments amassed $500 billion nationwide. wealth concentrated small group schools, tilting toward private institutions like ivy league highly selective colleges. 11 percent higher-education institutions united states hold 74 percent money, according analysis 2015 congressional research service.“it’s overwhelmingly weighted towards 1 percent,” said dean zerbe, former tax counsel senate finance committee. “most schools elites country.”the house republican tax plan includes 1.4 percent tax investment income private colleges universities endowment assets $250,000 per student. would apply public schools. passed, new tax would affect 70 elite private colleges, though would touch type offshore benefits texan partnership pursued.on monday, 45 education groups declared opposition bill letter kevin brady, texas republican chairman house ways means committee.college university endowment earnings usually tax-exempt. endowments sought greater investment returns recent years, shifted money traditional holdings like united states equities alternative, potentially lucrative investments. include private equity hedge funds frequently borrow money, opening tax consequences.when schools earn income enterprises unrelated core educational missions, required pay tax intended prevent nonprofits competing unfairly for-profit businesses.establishing another corporate layer private equity funds endowments effectively blocks taxable income flowing endowments, reason called blocker corporations. tax instead owed corporations, established no-tax low-tax jurisdictions like cayman islands british virgin islands.“congress essentially subsidizing nonprofits allowing engage transactions,” said norman i. silber, law professor hofstra university co-authored paper blocker corporations 2015. “they’re allowing borrow build endowments.”the use blocker corporations raised concerns among policymakers recent years. that’s partly cost united states treasury millions dollars, also legitimize opaque offshore network sometimes used nefarious purposes.“they’re cheating. they’re hiding money disguising money,” said samuel brunson, law professor loyola university chicago studied endowment taxation. “but they’re adding money system allows people, want hide money, it.” universities benefit — wealthy influential private equity industry.perhaps illustrating sensitivity topic, officials college university endowments use blocker corporations, including colgate, dartmouth, duke stanford, declined comment specifically, citing longstanding policies discussing investments. among matt kavgian, director strategic communications indiana university’s $2 billion endowment, invested $10 million quintana.an exception quintana shareholder texas christian university, whose chief investment officer, jim hille, acknowledged $1.5 billion endowment used blocker corporations. mr. hille said decision use one often came whether expected return would offset cost establishing blocker corporation.references corporations appleby files, shared new york times international consortium investigative journalists, obtained german newspaper süddeutsche zeitung, date back least 2003. time, five elite schools — columbia university, dartmouth college, university southern california, stanford university johns hopkins university — became partners bermuda-based group called h&f investors blocker.h&f investors blocker formed invest one largest private equity firms, hellman & friedman, shares axel springer, german publisher newspapers magazines.minutes meetings appleby’s office hamilton, bermuda, never mention tax avoidance even explain word “blocker” used partnership’s title. audit ernst & young, contained minutes, shows h&f investors blocker would owe federal income tax.by 2008, university texas system — whose endowment last year $24.2 billion, behind harvard’s ($34.5 billion) yale’s ($25.4 billion) — asked appleby set cayman islands company called tx liquidity capital “certain tax advantages accrue system,” documents show.colgate university, endowment worth $822 million last year, stood benefit blocker corporations 2008 invested genstar capital, private equity fund specializing leveraged buyouts, according records. one investor cayman islands partnership, called genstar capital partners v hv, took pains include handwritten note near signature: “elect invest blocker.” investors dartmouth, stanford duke fund called gothic corporation.while legal, blocker corporations part system endowment tax breaks fueling undercurrent populist anger. many students across country struggle massive college debt. time, critics say, wealthy schools use tax advantages stockpile endowments exceed gross national product entire countries.last year, three influential republican legislators, led senator orrin g. hatch utah, sent letter 56 private universities endowments $1 billion more, requesting information “the numerous tax preferences” enjoy. “despite large growing endowments,” letter said, “many colleges universities raised tuition far excess inflation.”so far, universities mobilized lobbyists emphasize public benefits deliver, beating back challenges tax breaks. evidence mood shifted, said charlie eaton, professor university california, merced, studied endowment tax breaks.“in ways, anti-elite anti-university spirit trumpism could create favorable environment capitol hill kind action this,” dr. eaton said. “that’s part reason universities urgently need grapple this. people genuinely feel elite universities become islands wealth.”in study year, dr. eaton estimated trio tax breaks benefiting universities costs federal taxpayers $19.6 billion year. taxpayers, many wealthy, get breaks donate colleges. tax-free municipal bonds allow schools borrow money low rates. part, endowment investment returns tax-free.multiple appleby documents offer glimpse complex financial transactions investments, controversial, university endowments engage world, aside using blockers.universities pressure students activists shift “green” investments response climate change, well take social policy global governance issues account investments.the appleby records show investment funds columbia duke, ranked top 20 endowments, held shares recently 2015 ferrous resources, registered isle man. primary business iron mining brazil.the company drew criticism planned 480 kilometer pipeline transport iron slurry mine minas gerais port.“major demonstrations took place project, culminated creation campaign,’” researchers wrote 2015 paper published journal society & nature.a 2010 environmental study pipeline revealed 110,000 people might affected noise, dust, soil degradation water quality issues. project postponed 2012 downturn iron prices.the company, ferrous resources, declined comment, except say project discontinued.columbia, owned eight million shares ferrous recources, 1.1 percent company, declined comment. various investment funds connected duke, also declined comment, held two million shares company.while schools announced shifts away controversial investments, others pointed divesting fossil fuels would probably lead significant drop operating funds.underscoring endowments’ reliance hydrocarbon holdings, 10 schools invested cayman islands partnership 2012 known encap energy capital fund ix-c, part encap investments, private equity firm known acquisition development north american oil gas properties.among investors university alabama, depauw, northeastern, pittsburgh, purdue, reed college, rutgers, syracuse, texas tech washington state.
thanksgiving casserole everyone table traditional thanksgiving meal giant spread lacks nothing. unless dietary restriction, case might lack something actually eat.there likely flour lurking gravy, bacon brussels sprouts, chicken stock dressing butter nearly everything else. would think people would safe cranberry sauce, there’s always possibility host somehow got idea use honey instead sugar, dash soy sauce give umami tang.what every modern thanksgiving table needs one great dish anyone eat. satisfying hearty enough meal own, appealing enough share side dish.this golden-topped casserole wild rice, white beans seared mushrooms fits bill.the white beans, puréed, give creaminess, wild rice adds robust, chewy texture. combination mushrooms, leeks fennel makes autumnal. plenty sautéed spinach helps lighten starchiness beans rice, also adds necessary color.like many casseroles, one adaptable tailor tastes crowd. use gluten-free panko celiac friends, leave parmesan topping vegans lactose-intolerant. can’t get, don’t want spring for, pricey wild rice, brown rice makes equally nubby substitute. cilantro haters substitute basil.one thing keep mind canned beans vary lot terms salt content. possible, find brand lists sea salt ingredient. tend better flavor unsalted beans. either case, taste go, adjusting salt see fit.conveniently thanksgiving (or dinner party), assemble components dish day want serve it. store filling topping separately fridge. baking, spread crumbs casserole bake steaming hot inside golden top.then serve loved ones, dish love.recipe: wild rice mushroom casserolefollow nyt food facebook, instagram, twitter pinterest. get regular updates nyt cooking, recipe suggestions, cooking tips shopping advice.
cabernet franc finger lakes: made course last decade so, one new york state region recognized world-class wines produced.no, it’s north fork long island. often first guess. perhaps north fork’s proximity new york city hamptons reason even tepid interest wine know it. long island great potential, certainly, fine producers. region yet establish identity either quality style.the region we’re looking finger lakes new york western new york state, nearest big cities rochester syracuse.this area — deep, slender lakes look clawed earth giant prehistoric feline — defined unlikely source superb rieslings. focusing riesling bold strategy era dominated white grapes, like chardonnay sauvignon blanc. made sense diverse soils cool climate, riesling thrive many grapes often struggle ripen.it often united states decisions grapes plant motivated sound viticultural reasons commercial concerns. marketers looking wine tempt masses would settle riesling, critically adored grape difficulty achieving clear identity consumers, even, paradoxically, become popular united states.for finger lakes, though, sound decision. critical acclaim rieslings fed growth production arrival new producers.by 2011, last year new york kept records grape acreage, riesling far region’s planted white vinifera grapes, european species accounts familiar fine-wine grapes. even so, region still many acres hybrid native american grapes, like concord niagara, legacy history producer cheap fortified wines small wineries bulk business selling directly visitors.still, regions world flourish one signature wine. long riesling prospered finger lakes, winemakers debated red counterpart ought be.i’ve charming pinot noirs, made fresh, delicate style rather opulent fruit. i’ve intriguing teroldegos blaufränkisches. yet consistently good distinctive reds i’ve finger lakes cabernet francs.in last five years so, seen cabernet francs region. lot — cab franc acreage accounts less third riesling acreage — enough notice.as riesling, focusing cab franc marketing no-brainer. it’s cabernet, one without clear identity name recognition. easy path necessarily best path, true riesling, maybe cabernet franc, too, makes sense.seeking deeper understanding finger lakes cabernet franc, wine panel recently tasted 20 bottles primarily 2014 ’15 vintages, one ’16 thrown in. tasting, florence fabricant joined christy frank — who, husband, owns copake wine works columbia county, n.y. — thomas pastuszak, wine director nomad.thomas wife, jessica brown, also happen small finger lakes label, terrassen cellars, makes cabernet franc. tasting coordinator, bernard kirsch, unaware connection included bottle blind tasting. avoid appearance conflict interest, include rankings.as tasted 20 bottles, clear profile finger lakes cabernet franc emerged. wines pale color, savory spicy, sweetly fruity. indeed, fruit flavor tended toward tart end spectrum, leavened herbal mineral touches.these wines spoke plainly cool-climate viticulture, phrase often bandied regions little claim it. yet true description conditions finger lakes, alcohol levels occasionally rise 13 percent, compared 14 percent 15 percent seen regularly california. best cabernet francs light- medium-bodied almost delicate textures lively acidity, sort would go especially well thanksgiving table.“people looking food-friendly wines,” thomas said. “cool-climate cabernet franc appeal seeking mineral-driven, acid-driven, firmly tannic wines.”it’s certainly lovely, desirable style, though perhaps mainstream american yet.“up copake, lot people want something local,” christy said. “but also want something that’s big rich, it’s fine line.”as sommelier, thomas tried pique customers’ interest nomad’s excellent selection finger lakes wines.“i used say, ‘think lighter version cabernet sauvignon,’” said. “now say, ‘a spicier version pinot noir.’ it’s successful terms peoples’ expectations.”our top wine, 2014 lakewood vineyards, epitomized prevailing finger lakes style. wine fresh, almost crunchy texture nuanced, savory flavors flowers, herbs spicy fruit. contrast, no. 2 bottle, 2015 le breton schneider & bieler, darker concentrated many wines. nonetheless well balanced, typical tart, herbal flavors.no. 3 2014 wisdom inspire moore, deliciously saline, savory mouthful, flavors tart sweet fruit. no. 4 2014 north block six atwater estate, floral herbal, kind tense energy it.other wines well worth trying include savory 2014 hermann j. wiemer; floral, earthy 2015 damiani; spicy, refreshing 2016 hosmer delicate deep 2015 keuka lake vineyards.almost bottles excellent value. none favorites cost $25.a cabernet franc-based wines like bloomer creek’s excellent white horse included tasting didn’t meet 75 percent threshold using name grape label. perhaps arbitrary, narrowed field.the focus riesling cabernet franc say finger lakes produce many fine wines. i’ve good chardonnays gamays. i’ve enjoyed pinot noirs. sommelier pascaline lepeltier recently teamed nathan kendall, n. kendall, make chëpìka, intriguing pétillant naturel made native grapes catawba delaware.it’s kind experimentation suggests serious exploration region’s potential. get better here.best value: ★★★ lakewood vineyards finger lakes cabernet franc 2014 $18fresh crunchy, savory, nuanced flavors tart red fruit, flowers herbs.★★★ schneider & bieler finger lakes cabernet franc le breton 2015 $21concentrated dark, well-balanced, lingering flavors cranberries herbs.★★★ inspire moore finger lakes cabernet franc wisdom 2014 $19textured saline, flavors tart sweet red fruits herbs.★★½ atwater estate finger lakes cabernet franc north block six 2014 $17tense floral, aromas flavors red fruits, herbs touch oak.★★½ hermann j. wiemer finger lakes cabernet franc 2014 $25savory tart, flavors red fruits herbs.★★½ damiani finger lakes cabernet franc 2015 $20tart floral, flavors savory, earthy red fruits touch oak.★★ hosmer finger lakes cayuga lake cabernet franc 2016 $20spicy saline, lip-smacking flavors red fruits herbs.★★ keuka lake vineyards finger lakes cabernet franc 2015 $22delicate deep, savory, lingering flavors red fruits, flowers herbs.★★ sheldrake point finger lakes cabernet franc 2014 $18straightforward, flavors cranberries herbs.★★ red newt finger lakes cabernet franc 2014 $19juicy, savory flavors tart cherries herbs.recipe: braised chicken gochujangmany finger lakes cabernet franc wines exhibited restrained fruit, whispers spice musky smoke brooding package. wines could handle food complexity heat, turned slow braise, infuses meat deep flavor produces warming, stewlike dish. it’s cooking method choice weather brings chill. process call usual three-step affair (brown chicken parts meat, add ingredients liquid, cover slowly simmer). gave chicken bit heat, unpacking korean condiment gochujang sake, ginger, garlic well-mannered poblano chiles. finished dish would welcome pillow steamed rice alongside. florence fabricantfollow nyt food facebook, instagram, twitter pinterest. get regular updates nyt cooking, recipe suggestions, cooking tips shopping advice.
plight postwar apartment don’t get wrong: kaya chwals loves 1960s red-brick co-op west village. 14 years, owned three different apartments building, getting ready move fourth.she likes unassuming facade, unfussy style. long-term relationships, pet peeves.“it’s old enough crappy, old enough charming,” said, gut-punch plain mid-rise building jane street. “it doesn’t patina love prewar buildings.”that’s reaction many buyers postwar apartment buildings, roughly defined built world war ii. wedged engineering feats latest condo boom grandeur prewar buildings, postwar era often gets short shrift eyes new yorkers. doubt period flaws: lower ceilings, sometimes-uninspired design, fewer amenities. willing look closer may find better deals, flexible floor plans balancing act mixes perks old new.to get sense building design might affect market, asked real estate appraisal firm miller samuel parse recent apartment sales manhattan based decade buildings constructed. (buildings converted years built — say, rental co-op — analyzed separately.) total 11,893 sales, using data july 2016 june 2017.unsurprisingly, city’s newest apartments, dominated luxury condos, got top dollar, median sales price $3.05 million, almost twice units buildings constructed previous decade. best bargains, however, weren’t found oldest apartments, 1950s stock, sold median $737,500, lowest decade. time kinder apartments built world war ii, reached sales peak $1.5 million apartments buildings early 1900s.the midcentury price drop matter taste, also substance. “by postwar, size apartments shrinking, ceiling heights down, number rooms declined,” said andrew s. dolkart, professor historic preservation columbia university.after world war ii, surge housing demand development previously underused land around city’s elevated train lines, especially east side, brought wave new rental buildings, said.one early successes manhattan house, built 1951: sleek, light-brick building lenox hill, set back street large green space private balconies residents. condo, building frequently $3 million-plus listings.the model perhaps successful, developers cashed white-brick look derivative designs cheap. “it’s second-class architecture,” said andrew alpern, architectural historian author, era eschewed structural hallmarks prewar design, like double masonry walls sound insulation windows bathrooms kitchens.“for while, despised people thought right despise them,” said carol herselle krinsky, professor art history new york university, early reception postwar brick buildings. even now, added, “things haven’t changed much.”as new york times lamented 1979 article, “tower tower white brown red brick norm, cramped rooms much well laid squeezed maximum profit.”but buildings, large, meant elite, historians said. built mostly rentals meet pent-up demand, catered middle class — least passes middle class manhattan.and remain affordable apartments city. two-thirds sales 1960s buildings past year less $1 million — price range buildings decade. apartments 1960s also among popular past year’s buyers, accounting 14 percent analyzed sales, second 1920s (16.3 percent sales).many postwar buildings built rentals converted co-ops 1980s, deserve recognition right, said jonathan j. miller, president appraisal firm miller samuel, analyzed data.“we could talk day cranes dotting sky today, pales comparison conversion new-development frenzy 1980s,” said. buildings converted originally rental, units tended smaller affordable — especially compared luxury condos sold today.that combination factors midcentury apartments remain one cheaper ways get hip neighborhoods, said jaclyn b. treinkman, associate broker compass recently listed apartment stout 1959 building greenwich village $550,000. similar newer apartments area might list $700,000 range, said.“it homey-slash-ugly,” said devon talbott, 30, actor owns apartment family. unit configured studio, red walls dated finishes, mr. talbott family bought 2007 $465,000. comparatively low price, said, allowed transform roughly 500-square-foot space one-bedroom two murphy beds, sliding partition wall small recording booth mr. talbott, voice actor japanese animated series “yu-gi-oh! arc-v.”the renovation, designed elise kodish anne zuckerberg associates, incorporated 1960s 1970s motifs like painted glass cabinets modernist chandelier hung macassar ebony wood cabinets tiger-stripe pattern. mr. talbott, working horror web series called “fear,” selling family moving brooklyn. fondness postwar redos remains: plan keep smaller studio ms. kodish also revamped white-brick 1960s building across street.the postwar pedigree lure others well. sovereign, 47-story tower sutton place built 1974, designed emery roth & sons, architecture firm known prewar developments like san remo towers. international-style lobby — complete venini crystal chandeliers, iron-mesh curtains rosewood paneling — remains largely unchanged.in building’s heyday, celebrities like freddie mercury calvin klein lived there, said jessica g. ushan, associate broker brown harris stevens sold 200 apartments sovereign since 1990s. rock-star edge dulled bit recent years, empty nesters pop artists calling home. building’s staying power design.half units floor plans resembling classic six classic seven layouts prewar apartments, distinct living dining areas maid’s room, ms. ushan said, half l-shaped, modern, open floor plan. under-nine-foot ceilings may lower new development, offset part private balconies — prices. ms. ushan said, “it’s half price new condo.”h.r. vanoosten morris, 52, retired asset fund manager, selling two-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bath unit building $2.295 million. husband, neal prince, died april architect known interior design intercontinental hotels, bought unit 1978. mr. prince kept original classic six floor plan intact thought formal dining living rooms ideal entertaining. space still designer’s antique-green marble flooring, mirrored walls custom-built glass-and-metal dining table seats least 12, stay apartment.ms. ushan said buyer likely want renovate kitchen, dated today’s standards, possibly open adjacent pantry maid’s room create larger open space. discounting vintage appeal.“some things get old, get new again,” said, noting buyers seek retro décor eye giving modern spin.for buyers postwar apartments — particularly built later — age number.“i guess ’80s long time ago now, doesn’t seem like it,” said sander ross, retired tax attorney. 2014, bought apartment wife, carol, general counsel publishing company, dag hammarskjold, concrete-and-glass condo built 1984, $1.775 million.the 43-story tower turtle bay, near united nations, one first luxury condos built 1980s, said richard balzano, associate broker douglas elliman sold couple two-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath apartment.“it much ahead time,” mr. balzano said, features like nine-foot ceilings building amenities like children’s playroom indoor pool top floor — unheard today, developers put expensive units top building.the apartment needed work. mr. ross wife raised ceilings, lowered previous owner house lighting, installed taller doors gutted space, cost $400,000. “i don’t think co-op would allowed us kind thing,” said.for effort, got condo amenities newer building fraction price. (the median cost 1980s apartment last year $1.19 million, compared $3.05 million new construction.) unit balcony overlooks several parks, master bedroom dead-on view pepsi-cola sign long island city. they’re planning sell.for ms. chwals, serial home buyer 1960s west village co-op, living midcentury building also meant break new-condo monotony.“i liked wasn’t sleek, post-carrie bradshaw version new york,” said, referring television series “sex city,” aired late 1990s early 2000s. point, thought prewar stock price range tiny overpriced.over years, learned appreciate plainness building, way artist sees canvas. “because it’s box, there’s loyalty preserving someone’s architectural vision,” said renovations husband, walter lee, done.ms. chwals, 37, works arts education nonprofit, made first purchase there: studio apartment, 2004. 2010, mr. lee, also 37 works financial services, bought two-bedroom. bought adjacent studio create combined three-bedroom home room two young daughters. they’re selling three-bedroom apartment, listed $3.795 million james morgan compass, move larger duplex building.in three-bedroom, couple took interior walls create largely open floor plan. working design firm studio g & a, used bright wallpaper, big art colorful carpets decorate unadorned space. living dining areas flow together, sliding walnut door closes dressing room. windows floor ceiling, newer buildings, ms. chwals sees plus: “you’d end living shades drawn, anyway.”there also something comforting living “it” building block. years become friendly neighbors, range age young parents retirees.“there’s real sense community don’t think we’d get shinier new building,” said.
ever-expanding rental new job sent olaf olafsson silicon valley manhattan 1989, wife, anna, well short gung-ho move.“she didn’t know much city except see hotel midtown,” said mr. olafsson, 55, executive vice president time warner also playwright, poet author five novels, including “one station away”, due early december.by way putting welcome mat, colleague invited couple dinner restaurant upper east side. arrived early went stroll, taking note stately houses, mix queen anne, italianate, beaux-arts renaissance architecture, shops like corner bookstore.smitten neighborhood, rented two-bedroom apartment fourth floor townhouse, quiet side street. “it renovated, everything brand new,” mr. olafsson said.a years later, first three children born couple needed room, added half fifth floor. came rest fifth floor sixth floor, included rooftop deck garden. and, finally, third floor another parcel outdoor space. (the rest building given lodgers.)with approval owner, become good friend, olafssons broke ceilings built floating wood staircases connect units. along way, added laundry room away one bathroom three kitchens, moving kitchen one flight capture much sunlight possible.“one problems townhouses kitchen usually ground floor, that’s always darkest place building,” said mr. olafsson, who, like wife, born raised reykjavik, iceland.granted, duplication space: floor sitting room. third-floor sitting room spot puzzles and, thanks recent acquisition turntable, listening music. fourth-floor sitting room watching television. fifth-floor sitting room piano place making music. family tends sitting kitchen, outfitted one mr. olafsson’s favorite possessions, viking stove. course.do olafssons ever ask crazy expensive renovations ever-expanding place don’t own? yes, do. often.“i wouldn’t call perfect situation,” mr. olafsson acknowledged. “you probably wouldn’t design way starting scratch. may wisest financial move. don’t think much.”he needn’t add hope springs eternal. owner promised olafssons first dibs building ever decide sell.midcentury modern dominant theme, represented kitchen table, desk eames chair mr. olafsson’s study, scandinavian side table, bright-red saarinen womb chair eames lounge chair. design without dogmatism. deeming effect stark off-putting, olafssons got rid two nice white midcentury sofas third-floor sitting room, replacing pair simple loden-green ones crate barrel.books everywhere. icelandic art, couple avidly collects. among paintings works kristjan davidsson, jon engilberts, georg gudni hordur agustsson. “when growing up, knew people father, novelist,” mr. olafsson said. “it’s always fun, addition art really like, know artist. still sort relate work, though many passed away.”four years ago, olafssons almost bought six-story townhouse upper west side. prize: 7,000 square feet divide arrange pleased. “we thinking could finally everything exactly way wanted,” mr. olafsson said.the contract signed monday. preceding friday, couple’s architect gave floor plan future home along with, quite literally, homework assignment: figure rooms want put where.“we sat kitchen table, excited,” mrs. olafsson said. “we like, ‘oh, kitchen living room here.’ would perfect little entryway guests, bedrooms here, little office olaf there. thinking, ‘maybe i’ll get nice laundry room maybe exercise room like exercise.’”things moving along nicely. “and like, ‘what going fifth sixth floor?’” mr. olafsson recalled. “‘we’re going talking intercom. we’re going searching other.’ two sons old enough going house soon.”the couple looked across table other, looked floor plan paperwork: 7,000 square feet; two years construction. thinking? decided stay put.“we’re creatures habit, guess, like here,” mr. olafsson said. “it’s home.”
anyone really want pick apples neighbors? many new yorkers, best kind neighbor quiet one offers little cursory nod elevator. yet, gotham west, luxury apartment building hell’s kitchen, announced october outing apple orchard, nearly 50 people signed 15 minutes, filling charter bus, leaving another 15 names waiting list.why many people jump opportunity spend entire day neighbors farm warwick, n.y., small town hour half north manhattan?maybe new yorkers actually want bond people hall, least that’s gotham west management seems think. residents sign building’s $700-a-year amenity package access endless social calendar events like movie nights, mixology classes, cider tastings halloween costume party.the trip pennings farm building’s first foray off-campus, taking theme building-sanctioned fun road.apple picking “kind feeds club atmosphere,” said patrick hazlewood, event producer accompanied gotham west tenants trip. “it part collegial, dorm lifestyle.” (assuming, course, want relive dorms.)next getaway agenda: weekend ski trip. mr. hazlewood considering vermont, would mean sleepover neighbors.gotham west one handful expensive rental buildings offering excursions latest perk. common, developer co-living housing, led new york city residents sleep-away camp near lake george times year. 525 west 52nd street, another hell’s kitchen rental, residents visited storm king art center cornwall, n.y., september. eugene, rental near hudson yards, also took residents apple picking last month.in sluggish rental market renters top oodles options, thinking goes: shower existing tenants unusual perks maybe new one sign lease. post pictures events social media, prospective renters, particularly new city looking friends, might take notice.such offerings also relatively inexpensive investment compared permanent fixture like pet spa indoor pool. field trip occupy valuable square footage, require expensive equipment.on dewy saturday morning october, michael borth, 43, broadway musician went warwick trip, stood front row empire apple trees described gotham west “by far social building i’ve ever lived in.” shares studio apartment girlfriend, deborah avery, 43, also broadway musician.ms. avery said girl scout last time went apple picking. “there many buildings i’ve lived next people never talked them,” said mr. borth, grew wichita, kan. apparently, that’s good thing. “it’s strange.”i get avoiding neighbors might seem strange people, really want alternative? get chummy, could end neighbor like kramer “seinfeld,” barges unannounced. grew california, state strangers always striking conversations. that’s left moved new york.even so, really make friends field trip grown-ups? maybe it’s good way make hefty $700 amenity fee get enough apples pie.residents said morning ride warwick quiet riders nursed coffees got minutes sleep disembarked. bus arrived around 10 a.m., group quickly fanned out, couples breaking together single tenants wandering alone. within minutes, everyone dispersed.sign outing without plus-one good chance would stay way day. orchard visitors meandered past me, clutching sticky children heavy bags fruit, smiled weakly. way knowing come group. imagined thinking: grown-up goes apple picking alone?ruth whippman, author “america anxious: pursuit happiness creating nation nervous wrecks,” likened outing corporate retreat go bowling group accounting. “sometimes feel quite forced,” said.yet, people desperately seeking ways look iphones strike real-life conversation — least 20 percent americans suffer loneliness social isolation, ms. whippman said. “there really big need people new kinds social opportunities,” said.but one choreographed might produce result management wants. “it’s hard know whether social occasion great party whether intrinsically awful someone’s crying bag apples,” said.the goal activities might “provide lifestyle enhancement opportunities,” christopher jaskiewicz, chief operating officer gotham organization, developer gotham west, told me.even so, enhancing day trip might be, people may actually make friends. best, make small talk go home. worst, get stuck sitting next someone really don’t like.melissa, 38-year-old playwright lives one-bedroom gotham west, doubts trip, signed anyway. “i little apprehensive,” said, cradling enormous bag apples walked. melissa asked withhold last name want anyone knowing lived. “i worried would picking apples couples,” said.instead, spent morning wandering orchard alone, gathering fruit. “i got lost loved it,” said. single day-trippers encountered also spent much day own. chatting, melissa bumped cheerful woman building also come own. traded pleasantries went back foraging fruit.as bit crisp winesap, asked melissa thought gotham west mixers. many events geared toward singles, said. someone signed lease live apartment complex mean anything common. “they want events people meet people,” said. “but you’re own, go yourself.”and maybe, end lot apples.
link alcohol cancer? it’s nearly scary seems headline friends panic.citing evidence, american society clinical oncology warned even light drinking could increase risk cancer.once again, we’ve told something eat drink going kill us. again, we’re provided opportunity: nuanced discussion risk — communicate — leave us much happier, perhaps healthier.let’s begin fact it’s easy use studies talk cancer. nothing illustrates better classic 2013 study examined research 40 common ingredients selected ordinary cookbook. researchers found 264 different studies touching least one ingredients. conclusion? depending look, find evidence says nearly everything eat associated higher rates cancer lower rates cancer.the gist oncology society announcement reasonable amount evidence finding association cancers (specifically oropharyngeal larynx cancer, esophageal cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, breast cancer colon cancer) alcohol. acknowledges greatest risks drink heavily, cautions even modest drinking may increase risk cancer. united states, announcement also notes, 3.5 percent cancer deaths attributable alcohol.of course, means 96.5 percent cancer deaths attributable alcohol. eliminate heavy drinking, one endorses healthy association surest, number climbs. also eliminate smoke — smoking believed intensify relationship alcohol cancer — number cancer deaths attributable alcohol approaches 100 percent.let’s stipulate may correlation light moderate drinking cancers. still don’t know relationship causal, let’s accept there’s least association. breast cancer — cancer seems garnering headlines — light drinking associated relative risk 1.04 announcement. relative risk refers percentage change one’s absolute (overall) risk result change behavior. (and 1.04 4 percent change 1.0, represents baseline difference risk experimental group control group.)a 40-year-old woman absolute risk 1.45 percent developing breast cancer next 10 years. announcement would argue she’s light drinker, risk would become 1.51 percent. absolute risk increase 0.06 percent. using what’s known number needed harm, could interpreted 1,667 40-year-old women became light drinkers, one additional person might develop breast cancer. 1,666 would see difference.of course, moderate heavy drinking might increase risks further. absolute risks 40-year-old would go 1.78 percent 1.45 percent moderate drinker, 2.33 percent heavy drinker. numbers still scary.but maybe increase risk much you. that’s fine. you’re one people, though, acknowledge can’t look one cancer vacuum. person get almost cancer.the large meta-analysis upon announcement based looked 23 types cancer respect alcohol consumption. found harmful relationship three light drinking. also found protective relationships — meaning decreased risk cancer — six light drinking.i’m arguing engage light drinking avoid six cancers. i’m merely pointing cherry-picking allows come different conclusions. respect moderate drinking, harmful relationships seven cancers protective relationships three. announcement focused former, latter.a 2013 meta-analysis annals oncology looked cancers found that, all, light drinking protective; moderate drinking effect; heavy drinking detrimental.it’s even cherry-picking focus cancer, though. person get number diseases, fact makes dangers light moderate drinking even muddier.if accept methodology case-control cohort studies, many links alcohol cancer arise, accept results similar studies diseases. instance, cohort study 6,000 people found drank least week better cognitive function middle age didn’t. 2004 systematic review found moderate drinkers lower rates diabetes (up 56 percent lower, although that’s relative risk reduction).randomized controlled trials alcohol (they exist) show light moderate drinking lead reduction risk factors heart disease, diabetes stroke. protective factors may greater negative risk factors (even cancer) might associated light moderate drinking. women die united states heart disease cancer. men.moreover, dire warnings consequences. know far many people throw hands every news story seems “everything” causes cancer. stories rarely acknowledge alternative point view. absolute risks light moderate drinking small, many people derive pleasure occasional cocktail glass wine. it’s perfectly reasonable even risk exists — overall risk debatable — decide quality life gained drink greater potential harms entails.this true many, many foods, alcohol.what this? could make simple changes better understanding risk new proclamation doesn’t send us tizzy:1) consider absolute risks. 30 percent increase risk sounds scary, increase 1 percent 1.3 percent absolute risk not, though things. likewise, concerned 5 percent risk increase 21 percent 20 percent 30 percent increase 1.3 percent 1 percent.2) don’t give much weight observational data. especially true causal data available.3) don’t focus one disease ignoring others. something may harmful regarding one disease beneficial regarding another.4) don’t cherry-pick. is, don’t focus studies, results. review evidence holistic picture possible.5) acknowledge harms, well benefits, recommendations. consider cost joy.these rules may make exciting headlines. may, however, lead happier, perhaps healthier, lives.
unsung role ordinary citizens played great crime decline theories great crime decline swept across nearly every major american city last 25 years focused would-be criminals.their lives changed many ways starting 1990s: strict new policing tactics kept closer watch them. mass incarceration locked growing numbers. crack epidemic ensnared many began recede. even unorthodox theories — around rise abortion, reduction lead spread a.d.h.d. medication — argued larger shifts society altered behavior (and existence) potential criminals.but none explanations paid much attention communities violence plummeted most. new research suggests people working hard, little credit, address problem themselves.local nonprofit groups responded violence cleaning streets, building playgrounds, mentoring children employing young men real effect crime rate. that’s patrick sharkey, sociologist new york university, argues new study forthcoming book. mr. sharkey doesn’t contend community groups alone drove national decline crime, rather impact major missing piece.“this part completely overlooked ignored national debates crime drop,” said. “but think it’s fundamental happened.”between early 1990s 2015, homicide rate america fell half. rates robbery, assault theft tumbled tandem. new york, washington san diego, murders dropped 75 percent. although violence increased last two years cities, including chicago baltimore, even places remain safer 25 years ago. crime continued fall cities, notably new york, shootings record low.this long-term trend fundamentally altered city life. transformed fear-inducing parks subways vibrant public spaces. lured wealthier whites back cities. raised life expectancies black men. even age widening urban inequality, meant daily lives disadvantaged less dangerous generation ago. poor neighborhoods, mr. sharkey found, greatest beneficiaries tectonic change safety.the communities participating another big shift started 1990s: number nonprofits began rise sharply across country, particularly addressing neighborhood youth development.mr. sharkey doctoral students gerard torrats-espinosa delaram takyar used data national center charitable statistics track rise nonprofits 264 cities across 20 years. nonprofits likely form communities gravest problems. also sprang reasons little local crime trends, expansion philanthropic funding. spike nonprofits addressing subjects like arts medical research occurred era.comparing growth kinds nonprofits, researchers believe able identify causal effect community groups: every 10 additional organizations city 100,000 residents, estimate, led 9 percent drop murder rate 6 percent drop violent crime.in criminology field produced eyebrow-raising ideas, one actually surprising. national finding echoes local studies individual programs, like one run pennsylvania horticultural society converts abandoned lots green spaces linked philadelphia reduced gun violence.the research also affirms tenets community policing: neighborhoods vital policing themselves, address complex roots violence ways fall beyond traditional police work.“it’s absolutely consistent would argue probably prevalent theory policing among major cities today,” richard myers, executive director major cities chiefs association, said new research.local organizations also say mr. sharkey’s results validate already witnessed.“any time people’s basic needs met, violence goes — that’s new,” said noreen mcclendon, directs nonprofit concerned citizens south central los angeles.the group, led ms. mcclendon’s mother many years, formed 1980s fight proposed waste incinerator neighborhood. evolved 1990s address many neighborhood’s challenges. group created dozens block clubs care individual streets. cleaned alleys repaired potholes, hired local ex-offenders work. established credit union, sponsored jazz festival developed hundreds units affordable housing.during time major disinvestment cities, severe cuts federal support urban programs, residents neighborhood believed one else coming help. “nobody,” ms. mcclendon said. group done work itself? “there would lot death,” said, “between violence amongst people, violence police brutality, drugs.”many similar groups explicitly think violence prevention. creating playgrounds, enabled parents better monitor children. connecting neighbors, improved capacity residents control streets. forming after-school programs, offered alternatives crime.in east lake neighborhood atlanta, crime rate mid 1990s 18 times national average. drug market neighborhood estimated $35 million business year. hadn’t new building permit issued neighborhood nearly three decades, sign little anyone invested community buy drugs there.then newly formed east lake foundation developed new mixed-income housing replace decaying public housing project. started golf program neighborhood children nearby long-deteriorating golf course. foundation eventually opened charter school, first class seniors 100 percent graduation rate may.“we knew wanted see violence crime go community,” said carol naughton, led foundation years today president national group, purpose built communities, trying teach east lake’s model cities. “but we’ve never crime-prevention program.”today violent crime east lake 90 percent 1995. ms. naughton momentarily perplexed question whether believes groups like gotten enough credit contributing outcome.“we’re part crime-reduction world, public safety world, way we’re part health education housing world,” said. “it never occurred us we’re getting credit, don’t even know world there.”the lesson response, mr. sharkey’s work — effective crime prevention doesn’t necessarily look like stop-and-frisk, hot-spot policing, mass incarceration — particularly relevant today cities rethink policing.“a lot communities despair needed resources,” said robert sampson, sociologist harvard studied chicago neighborhoods damaged violence. “and get? well, mainly got crime control. got increases incarceration.”those tactics may contributed decline crime well. they’ve come costs become clearer time, antagonizing communities disrupting families.mr. sharkey pointing one possible solution less evident downsides. he’s suggesting communities effectively take roles police say strained they’ve increasingly asked perform jobs weren’t trained for, guidance counselors marriage therapists substance-abuse experts.“they taking burden away police probably never there, default kind landed there,” said mr. myers chiefs association, also former longtime police chief himself, michigan, virginia, colorado elsewhere.as mr. sharkey publishes findings, crime rates diverging generation violence fell reliably year year nearly everywhere. it’s clear yet whether great crime decline writes continue. argues it’s time new model violence prevention, one relies heavily kind work community groups quietly aggressive police tactics tough sentencing trump administration advocates.“the model we’ve relied control violence long time broken down,” mr. sharkey said. communities want police step back, pointing people step in. “this gives us model. gives us another set actors play larger role.”
democrats cheer, may better ’18 year high-profile moral victories special congressional elections, democrats finally got actual victories board, more. big virginia, took full control state government new jersey washington state, prevailed important ballot measure maine, generally posted strong results across nation.together, clearest sign yet college-educated white voters’ unhappiness president trump would jeopardize suburban republicans next year’s midterm elections.but biggest difference tuesday’s democratic wins earlier republican wins deceptively simple: time, elections held neutral even democratic-leaning terrain.for reason, obvious tuesday’s performance represents significant improvement democrats’ showings earlier year. 2018, won’t always get luxury competing favorable districts. take house next november, might even better tuesday.make mistake: results tuesday fully consistent so-called wave election, like ones brought democrats power house 2006 back 2010.all conditions 2018 wave place. president’s approval rating stuck mid-to-high 30s. democrats hold nearly double-digit lead generic congressional ballot. president’s party nearly always struggles midterm elections.these conditions place year. haven’t yielded democratic victories high-profile races fought reliably republican areas — districts voted either mr. trump mitt romney least 15 points.but virginia voted hillary clinton five points 2016, backed barack obama twice well. new jersey, washington state’s 45th senate district, new york’s westchester nassau counties maine generally even democratic-leaning.the big surprise night huge democratic surge virginia’s house delegates, also came clinton country. 16 districts democrats currently lead virginia, mrs. clinton 15 received 49.7 percent vote other, according data virginia public access project daily kos elections. twelve 15 districts voted mrs. clinton least five points.just tuesday’s victories came states districts mrs. clinton doesn’t mean dismissed, however. college-educated white voters, paired nonwhite voters, could profoundly endanger g.o.p. traditionally republican, upscale districts.up polls closed virginia, reasonable suppose mrs. clinton’s performance represented something ceiling democrats well-educated areas. would easy, theory went, republican voters distinguish longtime republican representatives mr. trump. jon ossoff’s failure outdo mrs. clinton georgia’s sixth congressional district seemed fully consistent possibility.but well-educated voters virginia didn’t appear make distinction mr. trump incumbent representatives. ed gillespie, thought run pretty strong campaign governor ralph s. northam, wound running well behind mr. trump many well-educated suburbs, possibility imagined heading contest.the catch, though, overwhelming democratic strength well-educated areas cross political divides 2016 election reach white working-class areas. fact, mr. northam, virginia military institute graduate strong southern pedigree, didn’t even come close matching gov. terry mcauliffe, mr. obama senator tim kaine rural western virginia. democratic state assembly candidates didn’t run well ahead mrs. clinton, either.yes, political divisions 2016 presidential election wound working pretty well democrats virginia, highly educated state. might case democrats lot rest country. 11 republican-held congressional districts united states mrs. clinton five points more. even democrats swept 11 districts, wouldn’t get far toward 24 seats need flip house.to surprise, it’s obvious rerun virginia house delegates election national scale would yield democratic control house. without greater strength areas supported mr. trump, would still tossup.the good news democrats run well ahead mrs. clinton white working-class areas spring’s special congressional elections. tuesday, mr. northam ran ahead areas, too, even landed short prior democratic benchmarks.the big question 2018 might prove whether democrats all: possible combine virginia-like near sweep republicans clinton districts broad democratic overperformance white working-class districts? both, favored retake house. one would probably make fight house control tossup. fact they’ve done various points year might early clue.
new york times takes trip driverless future ever since started editor new york times magazine little three years ago, one main guiding principles been: don’t go far limb. precept feels particularly important many stories oversee science technology, two subjects easy journalists get far ahead facts. new study might suggest scientific breakthrough horizon, times never cover way seems imply it’s already here. previous job, wired magazine, colleagues one example hyperactive prognostication used running joke: “commuting dirigibles.” absurd mental image stand-in ridiculous sci-fi fantasies that, cool may look magazine cover, basically chance arriving.in tech design issue, week, colleagues made exception rule.indeed, we’ve gone far limb — veering pure speculation — branch surely broken. that’s subject issue, self-driving cars, science-fictional technology taken tremendous strides past years, billions dollars invested every year world’s biggest companies, toward becoming reality. looming transformation car, transformative invention american history, still quite years off, still well might stall reverse entirely. arrive, human drivers go way carriage horse, implications shift would profound. mind, thought little speculation might called for.this week’s edition one 15 special issues magazine put year. issues let us give broad attention important subjects — education, say, business — otherwise might cover enough. many cases, we’ve found especially fun (for us also, hope, readers) use go deep one story theme, turning around seeing every angle.for tech design issue, zeroed autonomous car — future might usher in. two favorite business writers, kevin roose jon gertner, visited tesla take measure self-driving projects — ride around autonomous cars they’re making. kim tingley visited start-up that’s teaching large trucks coordinate highways order save fuel.but real limb-breaking happens two essay packages consume much magazine. twenty short provocations, we’ve asked writers imagine transformations world could undergo humans longer driving around. times business reporter nathaniel popper thinks question car insurance would change. gretchen reynolds, well columnist, sketched autonomous-car workout. writers forecast effects autonomous cars everything drug dealing sex roadkill. definitely don’t miss back page, illustrator tomi um envisioned “museum driving” would like, future idea driving car seems remote piloting horse buggy would today.will us see driverless future? it’s hard say. right now, technology works controlled conditions, something simple snow change environment around cars ways researchers beginning figure account for. strides great, investment technology vast. certainly you’re likely commute day self-driving car dirigible.
‘“we people” hibernation’ top 10 comments week digital platforms, selected readers journalists moderate nearly every comment. comments edited length clarity.1. trump poked bear. i’m talking north korea iran. “we people” hibernation. time election, women’s march, today, winter sleepy citizens over.women, people color, people ethnicity — heck, human believes justice, integrity, rule law, heart country — stand trump trying do.— lindap, boston, reacting article american suburbs appearing revolt president trump, based results tuesday’s election. 2. it’s news — democrats win along? really? liberals disappointment 2018. policies haven’t changed. it’s still identity politics class warfare. democrats decide sideline elitist zealots elect centrist candidates, tuesday’s results aberration.— jesse conservative, orleans, vt.3. 19-year-old stand-up comedian college. louis c.k. first comedian ever really watched. heard rumors, always pushed back mind. like finding santa claus serial killer, head shoulders shampoo made kitten bones something.— max, boston, reacting article comedian louis c.k. accused five women overstepping professional bounds masturbating front them. 4. three-tour combat vet iraq used semiautomatic automatic weapons defense nation fight war terrorism. shouldn’t attend church concealed carry worship deity choice.instead calling thoughts prayers calling action solve national crisis feel right bear arms sacred life itself.— damon walton, clarksville, tenn., reacting article devin patrick kelley killing 26 people texas church using military-style rifle.5. guy stopped lunatic card-carrying member national rifle association. new york, we’re still reeling horrific attack crazed driver mowed tourists bike riders armed truck rented home depot. anything turned weapon nefarious purpose.— sharon5101, rockaway beach, n.y.6. blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah #280characters @jack left #140— @enggirl, via twitter, reacting article twitter’s announcement nearly 330 million users would able tweet 280 characters.7. i’m 74 still it. abuse happened 4 years old 7 years old. felt ashamed. tried tell mother.i afraid men. message want convey never over. alone 40 years die alone.— nancy, massachusetts, reacting op-ed endurance swimmer diana nyad experience sexual abuse coach, value speaking out.8. already money you, children, grandchildren spend lifetime still want save extra million, bad human being. big corporations uber wealthy receive benefits society, we, society, made rich begin with.instead acknowledging that, want tax cuts tax havens accumulate money. honestly, absolutely despicable.— sh, virginia, reacting article paradise papers, illustrate wealthiest people, control 90 percent world’s wealth, use offshore tax havens avoid paying taxes.9. son severe dairy allergy many people incredibly clueless it. one frequent responses get explaining people son cannot dairy is, “it’s gluten free!”— karissa jean rosenfield, times’s facebook page, reacting article death 3-year-old elijah silvera, served grilled cheese sandwich despite known allergy.10. obviously, haven’t heard toddler.— kyle key, times’s facebook page, reacting article soprano audrey luna singing high c thomas adès’s “the exterminating angel” metropolitan opera.
designing luxury cars like making jewelry. friends. earl lucas, 47, chief exterior designer lincoln motor company, dearborn, mich.q. day-to-day like?it’s different every day. interface multiple disciplines, whether packaging, engineering, marketing public relations. days computer designing digitally. might studio seeing image converted clay model, later fiberglass version it. another day go wind tunnel, test aerodynamics make sure right drag count get best fuel economy product.a. always want automobile designer?i always knew wanted something design. studied industrial design focusing jewelry — rings, pendants earrings — two years college creative studies detroit. college also happened outstanding automobile design curriculum. taking one class program, hooked. turns principles designing ring designing car.what early design influences?i would start mother, vessie lucas, interior decorator. taught think abstractly — could — early age. read lot comics, like “the mighty thor” “spiderman.” also watched cartoons “speed racer,” “battle planets” “star blazers.” terms cars, loved grandfather’s 1984 continental mark vii, two tones blue paint impeccable white interior. died, got drive sundays church.what considerations influence design concepts? try reflect personality brand. case lincoln, cars embody effortless luxury. think car friend. convey form, shape, color texture. influential design element may front grille. stand proportion everything else. centerpiece logo — called lincoln star — developed 1950s. managed tweak little.what envision auto design future?autonomous cars — driverless automobiles — future already developing technologies accommodate shift, predict could effect 2030. highways streets modified, cars also different shapes silhouettes; may look like living rooms. we’ll need anticipate caravans, cars link save energy.will death knell humans actually driving cars?while there’s something said autonomous cars, believe people still want drive. want control. want enjoy taking drive without knowing going able decide en route. comes bigger question: humans want part collective individual? it’s matter much freedom want.
cars lose spare tire leaner ride, could cost list items longer expect see new car — once-common features like metal ignition key, ashtray vent window swings open — may soon adding spare tire.already, nearly third 2017 models offered united states come outfitted save-the-day spare standard equipment, according recent study aaa.in truth, extinction spare tire happening, gradually, years. full-size spares gave way space-saving “doughnut” versions sometimes spot vehicles traveling worrying speeds. they, turn, yielding under-floor real estate tire all.the elimination spare automakers entirely abandonment good sense severe example cost-cutting; fact, benefit drivers. primary goal weight reduction, crucial factor meeting fuel economy standards.removing substantial amount rubber steel — 40 pounds, according industry experts — along jack lug wrench big win engineers conditioned shave ounces wherever possible. appealing may skip doughnut lose little weight, disappearing spare cause headaches: aaa said last year answered roadside assistance calls 450,000 members whose cars spares — situation mean trip repair shop flatbed.the freedom eliminate spare tires altogether largely possible result developments tire construction technology.an increasingly popular alternative spares so-called run-flat design, new bmw models use. intended make roadside tire changes unnecessary, solution employs reinforced tire sidewall typically lets driver continue 50 miles 50 miles hour air pressure lost. costly: may necessary replace, rather simply patch, damaged tire, replacements typically priced $25 $50 higher conventional design.another alternative self-sealing tire, older solution reappearing modern form battery-powered chevrolet bolt, reduced weight translates miles per charge. designed solely electric vehicle, bolt provision carrying spare. according michelin, supplies bolt’s energy saver a/s selfseal rubber, extra cost self-sealing tire — continue road even nail tread — $33 compared conventional tires size.but models losing spare without benefit run-flat self-sealing rubber, instead including conventional tires leak repair kit — packaged aerosol used conjunction small air compressor powered car’s battery.such kits skim weight skipping tire, limited abilities deal road hazard serious nail hole tire’s tread section. larger tear tire — something happen modern low-profile tires meet pothole — damage sidewall wheel rim fixed leak kit. sealants, usually one-time use devices, finite shelf life — usually four eight years, aaa said — cost $40 replace.even leak sealant kit gets back road hurry minor puncture, could complicate permanent repair. affixing internal patch sealant used requires thorough cleanup goo inside, said tom carter, technical communications director michelin.for car owner — certainly renters might know getting — best way prevent unpleasant middle-of-the-night surprise check spare sure holds air. there’s sealant kit instead, read owner’s manual (which may dvd available car’s display screen) learn use it.in cases, greater peace mind available automakers.for instance, although mainstream versions 2017 honda civic come factory space-saver spares, civic si not. spare wheel kit, including jack tools, available honda dealers accessory civic si suggested retail price $254. tire, must purchased separately, runs $115 sources like tirerack.com.bmw offers compact spare kit — including jack wrench — many x series sport utility vehicles 5 7 series sedans. cases, it’s $150 option ordering car, though models conventional tires free. sport utility models, compact spare fits entirely within compartment rear floor, sedans juts high, meaning floor panel cannot lie flat.not surprisingly, independent online retailers also emerged fill hole. buyers make sure compare prices dealership determine storage spot car tire secured. designers work smooth airflow car fuel-economy improvements, compartments going away, too.the disappearance spare tire might exercise efficiency. may sociological statement. survey aaa found 20 percent drivers know change flat tire, rise roadside assistance coverage new cars, number unlikely shrink.the era cars proudly displaying spare tire mounted front fender rear bumper — standby prewar classics — long gone, tradition suburban dads gathering inspect neighbor’s new purchase may undergo major change.instead crowding around front end see what’s hood, perhaps they’ll checking trunk see it’s got spare.
asian-american cuisine’s rise, triumph plate, egg looks like eye plucked baby dragon. yolk green-black smoked glass, gray, nearly calcified halo, trapped oval wobbling amber emitting faintest whiff brimstone.so begins $285, 19-course tasting menu benu san francisco. egg traditional chinese snack, often called (poetically, inaccurately) 1,000-year-old egg, preserved weeks months lye slaked lime, salt tea. it’s sold street vendors, tossed stir-fries scattered congee throughout china, parts southeast asia world’s chinatowns. billion people, utterly commonplace food.but present amuse-bouche one acclaimed fine-dining restaurants united states, predominantly non-asian clientele, radical. despite america’s long, complicated love affair asian cooking, hard imagine food, alien western culinary ideals appearance, aroma, flavor texture, served kind setting, let alone embraced, decade ago.this, though, new american palate. nation beholden old world traditions early settlers; crave ingredients farther shores. briny rush soy; ginger’s low burn; pickled cabbage heady funk close rot. vinegar applied everything. fish sauce like underbelly sea. palm sugar, velvet cane sugar’s silk. coconut milk slowing tongue. smoky black cardamom menthol aftermath. sichuan peppercorns paralyze lips turn speech burr, thai bird chilies immolate everything touch. fat rice grains cling, scoop hands. (as child raised filipino-american household, bewildered commercials uncle ben’s rice promised grains “separate, sticky,” good thing.)these american ingredients now, part movement cooking often gets filed melting-pot, free-for-all category new american cuisine. it’s specific that: food borne particular diaspora, made chefs “third culture kids,” heirs parents’ culture one raised in, thus forced create own.could call asian-american cuisine? term problematic, subsuming countries across vast region shared language single unifying religion. elides numerous divides: city countryside, aristocrats laborers, colonizers colonized — “fancy asian” “jungle asian,” comedian ali wong puts it. (she’s speaking specifically east southeast asians, followed similar patterns immigration u.s. primary focus piece.) yoke two origins, also read impugning loyalties code “less fully american.” asked american chefs asian heritage whether cooking could considered asian-american cuisine, always pause, sometimes sigh.but happens america: borders blur. aren’t many — americans asian descent 6 percent population, legacy decades immigration quotas denial citizenship — find common cause neighbors. term asian-american imposed us, like “yellow peril” late 19th century “oriental”; coined 1960s yuji ichioka, california-born historian civil rights activist, give us political voice. call kind cooking american, something lost.the rise contemporary asian-american cuisine began korean-american chef david chang’s momofuku noodle bar, opened new york 2004 followed four years later fellow korean-american chef roy choi’s kogi bbq truck los angeles. approach cooking typically, reductively, framed east-meets-west marriage big flavors elevated (i.e., french) technique — every asian cuisine hellbent storming palate (some, like cantonese, are, fact, renowned subtlety); culinary refinement proprietary west.but history asian-american cuisine goes back that, first tearooms banquet halls set chinese immigrants came seek fortune gold rush california 1850s. end 19th century, despite congress’s passage chinese exclusion act 1882 attempts condemn san francisco’s chinatown threat american way life — “in quarters civilization white race ceases,” declared pamphlet published workingmen’s party california 1880 — cantonese restaurants rage new york. food cheap fast, swiftly stir-fried woks, technique remained mystery decades west. (one journalist, touring chinatown kitchen 1880, wonder “the funny little things saw bottom deep earthen jar rat’s-tails skinned.”)when outsiders came flocking 1890s, chinese chefs altered invented dishes please them. less concession calculation, capitalizing opportunity. work immigrants — food arts — always dogged accusations impurity inauthenticity, suggesting one standard, preserved amber, dish writer artist roots another country say. it’s specious argument, born culture insufficient bona fides speak it. (immigrants always asked show papers, ways one.) history food, like history man, series adaptations, environment circumstance. recipes aren’t static. immigrant cooks, often living poverty, always made what’s hand, like japanese-americans rounded shipped internment camps second world war, improvised rice balls rations spam, korean filipino-americans who, survived canned goods aftermath war, eked household budgets deploying hot dogs kimbap banana-ketchup spaghetti.sometimes nostalgia kind food difficult convey don’t share history. bad saint, filipino restaurant washington, d.c., chef tom cunanan makes adobo pig tails, cheap, snubbed part animal treasured depression-era filipino immigrants working california labor camps. diep tran, vietnamese-american chef good girl dinette los angeles, told wishes could serve breakfast nothing baguette accompanied condensed milk diluted hot water, dipping. “it’s refugee food,” said. “proustian, kind like spam. people get upset; think they’re ripped off.”almost every asian-american chef spoke — late 20s early 40s — came u.s. children born parents immigrants. (in 1952, last racial barriers naturalization lifted, 1965, immigration quotas based national origin — asia, 100 visas per country per year — abolished.) almost stories neighbors alarmed smells families’ kitchens classmates recoiling lunchboxes. “i kid, farty-smelling food,” said jonathan wu, chinese-american chef nom wah tu new york. “i still feel that, i’m taking train garlic chives bag.”so chefs’ cooking, born shame, rebellion reconciliation, wistful ode imperfectly remembered never-known, idealized country. it’s mixture nostalgia resilience. wasn’t taught — certainly way cuisines traditionally taught. graduates culinary institute america hyde park, n.y., recalled little time devoted asian cooking; le cordon bleu london paris, none. one instructor took offense preeti mistry, whose indian-inflected restaurants include juhu beach club oakland, calif., likened french stew curry. another told david chang pork stock, essential tonkotsu ramen, “disgusting.”neither cooking much kinship “fusion” cuisine early 1990s, non-asian chefs like jean-georges vongerichten gray kunz began folding eastern ingredients otherwise western dishes. (“fusion” another term sits uneasily asian-american chefs. “i wouldn’t call ‘fusion,’ ” said maiko kyogoku, owner idiosyncratic bessou new york. “to describe food way? it’s extension myself.”) spirit, asian-american cooking closer american-born cuisines tangled roots: lowcountry cooking coastal south carolina, owes debt slaves west africa brought one-pot stews ingredients like okra, peanuts black-eyed peas; tex-mex, bastardization mexican food regional variant it, cultivated tejanos, descendants hispanics lived texas part mexico and, that, new spain.there’s also one cultural touchstone trauma binds asian immigrants: event national scale brought us together. part distinguishes experience immigrants people color fraught, intimate relationship countries origin u.s., foe protector, oppressor liberator, feared adored. 1899, british writer rudyard kipling urged u.s. “take white man’s burden” philippines spanish-american war:go send sons exileto serve captives’ need[...] new-caught, sullen peoples,half devil half child.this begot century american military intervention east southeast asia, history conflicting images: pearl harbor hiroshima; vietcong black pajamas american atrocities lai; teeming refugee camps smiling american g.i.s handing candy, decade decade, throngs dark-haired, starving children.any immigrant outsider first. asians america, starker sense otherness. don’t fit american binary white black. enemy; subjugated; “lesser” peoples whose scramble foothold society historically seen menace american order. yet we’ve also “good” immigrants, proving worthy american beneficence — polite, humble, grateful, willing work 20-hour days running grocery store laundry restaurant never “authentic” enough, spend every dime children’s test prep get best schools, believe promise america, work hard, become anyone. try hard enough, might even mistaken white.among children immigrants, asians america seem caught state limbo: longer beholden parents’ countries origin still grasping role american narrative. unique foreignness persists, despite presence asians american soil two centuries; none us, matter bald american accent, gone life without asked, “where from? mean, originally?” lead alienation, also liberating effect. raised two cultures — people see two heritages odds, unresolved, abeyance — learn shift them. may never feel like quite belong either, neither fully constrained. acute awareness borders (culinary well cultural) enclose exclude, allows, paradoxically, claim borderlessness, taking freely sides forge something new. asian-american chefs, seesaw obligations inheritance thrill go-it-aloneness, respecting ancestors lighting hills, manifests dishes arguably could come minds fluent two ways life.thus kaiseki niki nakayama’s n/naka, los angeles, always includes pasta course. slyly voluptuous “carbonara” abalone livers egg yolks homage tokyo-style wafu spaghetti briny pickled cod roe — it’s capped shaved truffles. tao yuan, brunswick, me., cara stadler takes tiles goat cheese made local creamery sears them, done yunnan, approximate rubing, sturdy farmer’s cheese. instead merely sprinkling cheese sugar salt, counters meatiness bright grace note mint watermelon summer’s height. caesar salad might supplanted canoe romaine, grilled hint smoke loaded dainty jako (dried baby sardines) quail eggs anchors, bessou new york. or, re-envisioned chris kajioka senia, honolulu, might mossy cliff charred cabbage — wink iceberg wedge — dusted shio kombu (shredded kelp boiled soy mirin), soaked dashi ginger, surrounded daubs heady green goddess dressing buttermilk turned gel. it’s much salad cheeky biography barbarian gates, achieving quintessence american classic asian ingredients.and asian-american cooking may expressed identified single set flavors, one thing unite disparate traditions emphasis textures. indeed, cuisine said revolutionized american food, it’s introducing unfamiliar mouth feels — crackle one doesn’t expect it, slime country that’s always shied away sensation — culinary vocabulary. justin yu, recently opened theodore rex houston, rhapsodizes “the crunch hear back head”; unrendered, gelatinous animal skin, “a fun burst fat softness”; broths barely skimmed, spoonful fat added “to coat lips.” maverick katsuya fukushima, daikaya washington, d.c., turned natto — gooey, slippery skein fermented soybeans, perfume castoff socks — earthy caramel soft-serve. like latin-american food, made americans crave heat, asian-american cuisine made “difficult” textures desirable integral food flavor itself. certain ingredients still make western diners squeamish part provocative fun.but question remains: calling kind cooking asian-american cuisine deepen contextualize understanding it, label, like speaking asian-american art fiction — way simplifying complex story making marketable cliché? danger fetishizing asian features, tendency diminishes: exotic object phenomenon, may never become recognized acknowledged more. “white chefs using ingredients saying, ‘oh, it’s strange,’ ” tin vuong, little sister los angeles, said. “it isn’t.” instead historical matrix asian culinary traditions, “young cooks see big pantry,” fukushima said. “take little bit this, little bit — there’s soul it.”chang believes food “has potential sort show we’re same.” even isn’t entirely comfortable ubiquity kimchi. “let’s say spent time asia, found recipe youtube,” said. “that’s appropriation. it’s skin color. story, pay respect means.” time, seems reductive expect asian-american chefs make food somehow reflects personal “story.” season three “top chef,” hung huynh, vietnamese-american contestant, faulted cooking technically dazzling lacked explicit reference roots. “you born vietnam,” tom colicchio, head judge, said. “i don’t see food.” (it’s hard hear echo trope inscrutable oriental, whose motives can’t deciphered, common criticism asian-americans school work overly cerebral lacking feeling.) strictures reality tv demand baring soul, asian-american chefs want work asian flavors — do, it’s always expected ways.must every italian chef make lasagna, every french chef coq au vin? anita lo, closed fine-dining restaurant annisa new york earlier year, cooked 17 years without fealty one region cultural tradition. puzzled diners. “i someone come say, ‘where’s big buddha head?’ ” said. publications request recipes submits one without asian ingredients, response often, “we really hoping something asian” — asian-ish: anything soy, apparently, do. “i send japanese, isn’t even background, works,” said.corey lee’s “benu” cookbook filled stories: grandmother foraging acorns; mother forcing drink tonic brewed deer’s antlers; father bringing home live lobster son’s birthday, joys eating tomalley (the wet gray-green paste acts lobster’s liver pancreas) buttered bread. suggest lee’s dishes, however rarefied, also deeply autobiographical. lee demurs, way novelist might, fending critic’s attempt find books correlations actual events, wanting stand alone fully imagined works art. “there’s great pressure chefs story,” said. “maybe there’s story beyond, ‘i want serve food tastes good.’ ”it’s eternal plea minority, ask judged one’s appearance rituals one’s forbears quality one’s mind powers invention. certainly country predicated right shed one’s past reborn, come nothing work way up; this, asians may among american americans. choice always exotic caricature rootlessness? philosopher slavoj zizek argues embrace “ethnic” restaurants merely “tolerance” “folklorist deprived substance”: “the ‘real other’ definition ‘patriarchal,’ ‘violent,’ never ethereal wisdom charming customs.” often asian-american chefs presumed double educators ambassadors, representing entire race, culture cuisine.in end, doesn’t matter — others, — from? no, don’t mean “originally.” mean forces made us: immigrants raised us, burdens expectations, exhortations fit never forget are; country grew in, home, taught us “other” also seems, confused, tentative way, want learn something us.for asian-american chefs, conundrum, opportunity. foods childhoods mocked rejected non-asian peers (and ashamed rebellious younger selves); accepted dilute, placating form; able command audiences clamor sensations aggressive flavors, might unnerved knew exactly putting mouths. may radical asian-american cuisine attitude informs powers it, reflecting new cockiness population historically kept quiet encouraged lay low. it’s food celebrates crunchy cartilage gelatinous ooze, openly stinks, declares: like eat. you? dare?
queen elizabeth ii delegates wreath ceremony prince charles london — significant step british monarchy’s transition, queen elizabeth ii watched balcony central london sunday eldest son, prince charles, placed wreath cenotaph, britain’s memorial war dead.often praised rigorous royal obligations, queen, 91, delegated remembrance sunday duty charles, 68, next line british throne.buckingham palace announced change last month, move seen royals observers major step shift monarchy’s next generation.the queen watched ceremony unfold nearby foreign commonwealth office balcony whitehall chilly morning, flanked husband, prince philip, charles’s wife, camilla, duchess cornwall.prime minister theresa may leader opposition labour party, jeremy corbyn, among officials attendance.the chimes big ben, silent lengthy restoration project, tolled event, second time two days, nation observed two minutes silence. bell also rang saturday mark armistice day.elizabeth britain’s longest-reigning monarch, crowned westminster abbey june 2, 1953.prince philip, 96, retired august solo public appearances, remarking “the world’s experienced plaque-unveiler.”charles recently represented mother 10-day tour four commonwealth countries: brunei, india, malaysia singapore. sunday wasn’t first time stepped mother annual wreath-laying ceremony london: performed ritual 1983 — kenya.security tightened year, authorities employing facial recognition cameras, bag searches, sniffer dogs body scanners, according news reports.on saturday night, elizabeth philip joined thousands veterans royal albert hall program honoring british military men women. event included hymns, prayers performances scottish singer-songwriter emeli sandé english tenor alfie boe.
barcelona, rajoy calls record turnout defeat secessionism madrid — first visit catalonia since taking control restive region spain, prime minister mariano rajoy sunday urged catalans vote next month’s elections defeat independence movement return region “normality.”mr. rajoy, addressing catalan supporters conservative popular party, rejected criticism jailing separatist politicians, day hundreds thousands pro-independence demonstrators marched barcelona, catalan capital, demand release.“in spain, defend idea,” mr. rajoy said, long done within rule law.mr. rajoy’s government took charge catalonia oct. 27, using emergency powers article 155 spanish constitution, shortly separatist lawmakers voted independence spain. fired catalan government, dissolved catalan parliament set new regional elections dec. 21.after mr. rajoy imposed direct rule catalonia, region’s former leader, carles puigdemont, arrived brussels. fighting arrest warrant issued spain’s judiciary force four catalan politicians return madrid stand trial charges including rebellion. members former catalan government recently jailed without bail.but ahead december elections, independence movement shown signs strain. mr. puigdemont failed past week strike agreement two main catalan parties renew joint, pro-independence ticket brought office late 2015.on sunday, representatives far-left party ada colau, mayor barcelona, voted break governing coalition barcelona’s city hall socialists, socialists backed mr. rajoy’s decision take catalonia’s administration.in response, miquel iceta, socialist leader catalonia, accused ms. colau’s party choosing catalan independence interests barcelona.on twitter, ms. colau called breakup governing coalition sunday “a difficult decision.” recently criticized separatist lawmakers unilaterally declaring independence. still, mayor joined protest saturday demand release eight jailed former members catalan government, well two separatist leaders.about 750,000 people marched barcelona, according local police. brussels, mr. puidgemont thanked demonstrators, twitter, “our strength.”on sunday, however, mr. rajoy called “the silent silenced majority” opposes secessionism “convert voice votes” dec. 21. recent regional elections, september 2015, separatist parties majority seats catalan parliament, 48 percent votes.the leading candidate popular party catalonia, xavier garcía albiol, told supporters “independence toxic destroys catalonia.”mr. garcía albiol condemned suggestions catalan separatist leaders held madrid jails political prisoners.“spain today one consolidated democracy europe world,” said.both mr. rajoy mr. garcía albiol highlighted negative financial consequences secessionist conflict assured catalan voters would help return region economic health beating separatist parties next month.mr. rajoy urged spanish consumers boycott catalan goods said determined stop separatists pursuing “a journey nowhere, bring crisis, unemployment fracture catalan society.”mr. garcía albiol said 2,400 companies moved legal headquarters catalonia since start october.“never companies left part world quickly,” said.
slovenia chooses incumbent ex-actor president ljubljana, slovenia — voters slovenia went polls sunday decide runoff election sitting president deeply rooted political establishment former actor appealed electorate tapping concern struggling economy.according latest opinion polls, incumbent, borut pahor, seeking second term, favored win five-year mandate rival, marjan sarec, mayor small town north capital, ljubljana, tiny alpine country home america’s first lady, melania trump.if mr. pahor, 54, named one news media outlet europe’s instagram president, triumphs, become slovenia’s second two-term president since 1991, slavic nation two million people gained independence collapse communist yugoslavia.public opinion experts predicted tight race mr. sarec forced runoff widely popular president first round balloting, oct. 22. mr. pahor came first among nine candidates, 47 percent vote. mr. sarec distant second, 25 percent, enough deny incumbent outright victory.“it’s really telling candidate like pahor, much experience, skill popularity, challenger saric, comes nowhere appears little offer,” said tanja staric, veteran political reporter news editor slovenia’s public broadcasting network.leading runoff, mr. sarec, 39, narrowed mr. pahor’s lead opinion polls, indication slovenian voters sync across europe, candidates campaigning fringe traditional political parties governing elites steadily gained support.the presidential election is, however, considered dress rehearsal next year’s vote parliament.while populist tilt slovenia, shift nowhere near seismic changes britain, voters last year backed leaving european union; germany, alternative germany became first far-right party enter parliament decades elections october; austria, people’s party emerged october strongest political force country, setting course rightward shift.both candidates slovenia run independents, mr. pahor deeply entrenched traditional party system left ridden waves european social democracy since collapse communism.mr. sarec, elected mayor kamnik 2010, better known impersonating politicians satirical radio program one himself, ms. staric said. past three weeks, however, managed, said, appeal “ordinary people, average joe, feels left behind global economy.”the collapse health care system, unemployment among youth economic recovery among major issues voters. slovenians say expect president solve problems, say hope elected candidate provide moral guidance new parliament next year.slovenia wealthiest socially progressive states emerged collapse yugoslavia. 2004, also first join european union nato rest region still reeled devastating wars grip nationalist rulers.yet slovenia, country size new jersey, struggled find place european union, leaders refusing partner openly central european countries like hungary poland, striving one 28-member bloc’s core decision-makers, like germany france.during campaign, mr. pahor, led american-style campaign using social media lure voters, insisted slovenia belonged group powerful countries. frequently dropped names chancellor angela merkel germany jean-claude juncker, president european commission, “friends.”while mr. sarec emphasized pro-european union stance, also promised address slovenians’ concerns see european union’s failure hold unified position immigration find solutions economic malaise eurozone.slovenia yet recover downturn 2009; economy shrunk 8 percent.during migration crisis 2015, slovenia front-line country, tens thousands migrants crossing way seek asylum germany sweden. last year, slovenia’s government instrumental closing so-called balkan route migrants, working austria north fencing border croatia south stem flow.the presidency slovenia’s highest elected office, holds executive powers. winner commander chief armed forces power dissolve parliament call early elections.the fight control government next year pit right-wing nationalist janez jansa, former prime minister current opposition leader, dejan zidan left-of-center social democrats.
pakistani cleric’s supporters block entrance islamabad islamabad, pakistan — thousands supporters firebrand pakistani cleric, many armed sticks iron rods, blocked main entrance islamabad since last week, demanding resignation country’s law minister strict adherence blasphemy laws.led khadim hussain rizvi tehreek-e-labaik pakistan party, least 3,000 protesters staging sit-in one main highways leading capital.officials say suspect protesters carrying serious weapons, concern standoff might turn violent. response, government blocked several roads stop protesters moving important government buildings.crippling, hourslong traffic jams resulted. long lines vehicles could seen much past week sunday roads leading islamabad suburbs neighboring rawalpindi. several schools near protest site remained closed. shipping containers barricading main streets ubiquitous sight.“hectic efforts negotiations resolve issue,” said kamran cheema, assistant commissioner islamabad.but leaders protesters remained defiant.“we lay lives, step demands,” mr. rizvi, cleric, said atop stage set cargo truck supporters chanted “labaik ya rasool allah, labaik” (i here, prophet god, here).the sit-in underscores difficulties government faces dealing right-wing extremist groups. governing political party, pakistan muslim league-nawaz, already reeling fallout disqualification july leader nawaz sharif, prime minister, corruption investigation.any violent confrontation hard-line clerics would exacerbate tumultuous political situation.the latest controversy erupted last month, government introduced changes electoral laws. change wording oath lawmakers dealt declaration prophet muhammad god’s final prophet quickly set furor among opposition parties, especially religious groups.they protested change amounted blasphemy.blasphemy particularly combustible issue pakistan, often leading violent riots vigilante justice. critics rights groups say blasphemy laws used persecute religious minorities, especially ahmadis, considered non-muslims, according country’s constitution.the government quickly reversed change oath, damage done. remains unclear prompted alteration electoral oath. officials initially said change result “clerical error.”the law minister, zahid hamid, center storm. religious leaders accused blasphemy ahmadi. mr. hamid denied accusations, video message last week, emphatically stated believed muhammad god’s final prophet.but protesters calling mr. hamid fired — demand unacceptable government.mr. rizvi, virtual unknown years ago, belongs barelvi sect built reputation staunch defender country’s blasphemy laws. process amassed considerable political muscle. sermons often laced invectives profanities aimed religious minorities opponents.in september, mr. rizvi’s party entered political fray — surprise many observers — 7,000 votes, 6 percent, by-election lahore, eastern pakistan, seat vacated ouster prime minister nawaz sharif.the relatively strong showing seems emboldened mr. rizvi, used electoral oath controversy charge toward capital. ease protesters able gather near islamabad drawn attention.“any violence work advantage right wing, know it,” dawn, leading newspaper, said sunday editorial. “ government must give them.”the protesters threatened lay siege airport islamabad, railway station rawalpindi several government buildings demands met.at least 10,000 law enforcement officers poised act negotiations failed protesters tried take law hands, officials said.“the current situation cannot tolerated endlessly,” mr. cheema warned.
holding hands, drinking wine ways go jail dubai dubai, united arab emirates — scottish electrician named jamie harron, visiting dubai tourist, sentenced three months jail touching man bar.the british head professional soccer team, david haigh, ordered jailed seven months tweet says could — since already jail without phone.an australian aid worker living dubai, scott richards, locked trying raise money buy blankets freezing afghan children, part recognized charity.dubai, one seven united arab emirates, portrays welcoming foreigners. boosters claim fourth most-visited tourism destination world, least 12 times many foreign residents citizens.but legal system based hard-line interpretation shariah law often lands foreigners jail offenses westerners would dream even crimes.recent examples cited lawyers include holding hands public; posting praise facebook charity opposed fox hunting; drinking alcohol without license; sharing hotel room person opposite sex (other one’s spouse).mostly, dubai authorities look way comes behavior foreigners — don’t. hotels ask couples marriage licenses. dubai lively night life, numerous gay bars nightclubs east european prostitutes openly solicit customers.yet cohabitation crime, homosexuality subject death penalty (though rarely imposed) prostitution punished lashes even worse.even victims violent crimes accused morality offenses: gay people report assaults jailed along attackers, women report raped imprisoned adultery four male witnesses support story.radha stirling, british lawyer, says represented hundreds westerners jailed dubai behavior usually permitted there.“you go facade legal, everyone it, think it’s o.k.,” said ms. stirling, runs british-based group, detained dubai, publicizes cases. “but offend someone you’re one gets it.”two recent cases, handled ms. stirling, aroused widespread ire britain, nationals living dubai western country.mr. harron, 27, scottish electrician visiting dubai, arrested sentenced three months jail public indecency allegedly touching man’s hip brushed past crowded bar. british man leicester, jamil ahmed mukadam, 23, facing trial giving middle finger dubai driver said tailgating him.mr. mukadam, computer consultant, rental car, took police trace him. six months later, september, arrested airport upon returning dubai. free bail, without passport, awaiting trial.he could face six months jail convicted making “obscene gesture.” mr. mukadam said often visited dubai wife liked city, particularly variety halal food, plan return.“no chance i’m coming back again,” said. “i wouldn’t set foot again, way i’ve treated.”emiratis mostly unapologetic country’s contradictions.“westerners’ culture differs arab culture,” judge ahmad saif, head dubai civil court, said recent interview national, newspaper based abu dhabi. “in countries, flashing middle finger insulting another acceptable punishable law. culture people living u.a.e. much different. end day, muslims committing acts acceptable.”most cases ensnare unwary foreigners involve morality offenses. law drink without license, instance, foreigners get one residents. tourist drinking illegally, even licensed bar. couples cannot share room together married, even homes.when emlyn culverwell, 29-year-old south african, took fiancée, iryna nohal, ukrainian, doctor dubai, complaining stomach pain, diagnosis pregnancy — treatment phone call police. couple arrested jailed could produce marriage license.some emiratis acknowledge laws kept pace rapidly changing society.“it unreasonable expect country warn every visitor complete set rules regulations place,” essam tamimi, dubai lawyer, said email. “in short period time, dubai greatly developed become one world’s diverse melting pots. said, laws general made accommodate society’s needs u.a.e., like countries, still changes make.”dubai officials respond requests comment article.critics complain emirates’ legal system stacked foreigners, amnesty international human rights watch accused country arbitrary detention abuse prisoners.mr. haigh, former managing director leeds united football club partner ms. stirling’s law firm, said jailed 22 months tortured repeatedly attempt force sign confession, never managed see copy charges supposed confess.mr. haigh gotten business dispute dubai bank, gfh capital, owned stake team. said tricked coming dubai resolve differences, jailed arrival breach trust held several months without allowed see lawyer.while jail, charged posting offensive twitter message, though says phone internet access. that, sentence increased seven months. eventually acquitted twitter charge, served another seven months top original 15 month sentence.“ninety percent population breaking law 90 percent time one anything upset wrong person get arrested,” mr. haigh said dubai.in recent years, united arab emirates cracked social media, making crime criticize country, citizens businesses facebook twitter. law mainly used punish domestic critics, also swept ryan pate, helicopter mechanic florida, jailed unleashed facebook rant sick leave dispute employer, global aerospace logistics, u.a.e. company.foreign residents tourists encounter similar problems throughout emirates — mr. pate’s company based abu dhabi — common dubai westerners live visit there.other offenses foreigners realize lead jail time include passing bad check, even accidentally; failing pay credit-card bill time; taking photograph someone without permission; touching someone.that accusation mr. harron: touched man intimately public place, rock bottom cafe, club frequented gay men. says pushing crowd put hand man’s hip avoid spilling drink.he sentenced three months jail, although allowed leave country ruler dubai, sheikh mohammed bin rashid al-maktoum, nullified court’s ruling. heavy publicity often helped resolve cases, even legally looked hopeless.“the u.a.e. government huge public relations entity,” ms. stirling said. “if think case going harm them, government speak police get charges dropped.”
putin’s bridge crimea may carry symbolism traffic kerch, crimea — looming bridge best show town.every two weeks, nikolai ench, retired sailor, wife, olga, scale scrublands kerch white toyota truck marvel colossal engineering feat inching way across strait separating crimea russian mainland.“this first time build something like russia,” said mr. ench, 67, even spent entire night august staring bridge binoculars construction workers slotted first two arches place said exactly 7:27 a.m. “we feel certain pride.”expected open traffic december 2018, $7 billion bridge project likely come freighted symbolism actual vehicles. latest series megaprojects type much beloved president vladimir v. putin.“it showing world great things do,” said ekaterina schulmann, political scientist russian presidential academy national economy public administration. “the government might able provide safety, good health care education, provide big projects. cannot bread, least circuses.”the bridge, nearly 12 miles long, carries even weightier symbolism much world considers russia’s 2014 seizure crimea illegitimate.“it signifies visible way connection crimea russia, crimea part russia, connected solid bridge — symbolic gets,” ms. schulmann said.mr. putin taken keen public interest project, least annexation black sea peninsula buoyed political fortunes domestically resurrecting image russia muscular power.in crimea, billboards bearing picture quotation lauding “historic mission” building bridge loom various potholed highways.when project first announced, however, seemed russian company wanted touch it. extraordinary engineering challenges, anything involving crimea carried risk international sanctions. even daunting, perhaps, ultimate project supervisor, known demanding boss, laying rigorous construction schedule.“the bridge difficult, scale huge tough meet deadline,” said oleg skvortsov, bridge specialist led 50-member expert advisory council. “the deadline set president, nobody wanted take risk.”into breach stepped arkady r. rotenberg, billionaire made career taking mr. putin’s pet projects. judo partner president since youth st. petersburg, mr. rotenberg also conveniently already western sanctions crimea status member mr. putin’s inner circle.there question whether mr. rotenberg volunteered pushed. official version voiced sacrifice great serving motherland, plus bridge would stand crowning construction achievement.“it seems last big project me, make money,” told daily kommersant 2015 interview. “if permit say this, contribution country’s development.”the padding involved huge government construction projects often served conduit kremlin enrich friends. notorious recent example development black sea resort city sochi 2014 winter olympics, costs mushrooming $51 billion, expensive olympics ever.boris nemtsov, politician anticorruption crusader shot dead outside kremlin 2015, estimated 15 percent olympics budget went rotenbergs, arkady brother boris. arkady rotenberg long denied exploiting friendship president personal gain.by reckoning, kerch bridge would exceptional end welter embezzlement scandals plague megaprojects. cost assembling bridge across difficult waters high deadline tight analysts believe little leeway pocketing construction funds.spanning kerch strait bridge proposed repeatedly 100 years even tried before, combination costs, war mother nature doomed every previous effort.not everyone convinced current effort succeed, either.the strait runs two mountain ranges, sending fierce winds howling narrow confines. alluvial flow various rivers carpeted seabed 80 meters fine silt. ice floes crash spring thaw — indeed, ice floe sundered german military bridge constructed world war ii — area prone earthquakes.for new bridge overcome conditions, thousands upon thousands pylons driven seabed stability. addition, various parts built using aerodynamics akin airplane wing, ensuring winds flow around structure.“all discussion geology, ice, wind, waves — would relevant 50 years ago,” said mikhail y. blinkin, director transportation policy institute moscow’s higher school economics. “now, question cost. gets expensive, all, huge advancements technology.”on hand, noted, interesting project russia’s engineering construction industry, rarely faces complicated tasks. construction actually involves twin bridges — one vehicles second due open 2019 trains. double arches rising 115 feet water allow passage ships.the huge costs involve bridge, also rail lines highways linking it, well new highway across crimea. bridge sucked significant portion budget road bridge construction throughout russia, experts said, despite official denial. government plans raise gas tax part help pay crimea’s development.“the fact bridges built, say,” said mr. skvortsov, head advisory council. “we short bridges roads. enough money, system priorities.”mr. skvortsov confessed skeptic, thinking like others modern, efficient ferry service would far cheaper practical. finished, bridge able carry 40,000 vehicles 94 trains day. cars one day 38,000 ferry transported entire month december 2016, although 305,000 transited august, peak tourist season.the russian annexation crimea changed calculations, however. ukraine severed transportation links, effectively isolating peninsula. kiev opposes bridge.some crimeans consider bridge tangible sign russia improving lot. “for 20 years everything collapsing, finally something built,” said nadezhda nesterenko, 39, postal worker also regularly monitors construction.some residents hope bridge wrench crimea provincial doldrums, even if, moment, main point appears solidifying russia’s claim peninsula.in ancient times, said mr. blinkin, transportation expert, two philosophies behind road building. romans, noted, extended highways everywhere buttress claim vast empire. contrast, scythians around upper reaches black sea avoided building roads help keep enemies out.russia adopted latter attitude centuries, mr. blinkin said. leaders like stalin shunned roads invaders could come russians could leave. hence kerch bridge departure.“politically, build physical connection,” said. “if build bridge somewhere, build highway somewhere, declare yours.”
nationalist march dominates poland’s independence day thousands far-right nationalists marched poland’s capital, warsaw, saturday, waving red-and-white polish flags carrying flares.the crowd march, coincided poland’s independence day, commemorating reinstatement sovereignty end world war i, far outnumbered official government events earlier day.many participants held christian iconography.but others held banners white supremacy, including one read “white europe brotherly nations,” according associated press. still others carried signs equating islam terrorism, waved signs denouncing same-sex marriage, carried banners national radical camp, anti-semitic group founded world war ii extreme nationalist values.the annual march become something magnet white supremacists far-right groups across europe since began 2009.as poland moved right, rally grown. right-wing law justice party, voted power 2015, moved nation liberal european cooperation inward-facing agenda.the slogan saturday’s march, “we want god,” comes old polish nationalist song. president trump quoted phrase visit year.the crowd counterdemonstration, slogan “for freedom yours,” greatly outnumbered. participants held umbrellas spelled “stop facism” others carried banner read “rainbow new black.”
lahore, pakistan, smog become ‘fifth season’ lahore, pakistan — nearly two weeks, lahore, pakistan’s second-largest city, like one huge airport smokers’ lounge. abid omar’s jaw still dropped wednesday, checked air-quality monitor installed track city’s appalling pollution.it said levels dangerous particulates known pm2.5, small enough penetrate deep lungs enter bloodstream, reached 1,077 micrograms per cubic meter — 30 times pakistan’s government considers safe limit.“you see smell smoke day; actually touch filth,” said amna manan, 26-year-old manager multinational company lahore, city 11 million. “half time, i’m scared breathe in.”while delhi’s air quality generated headlines worldwide recent days, experts say air lahore rivals indian capital’s toxicity. problem limited city; 2015, according world health organization estimate, almost 60,000 pakistanis died high level fine particles air, one world’s highest death tolls air pollution.for years, pakistani environmentalists referred november, crop burning, higher emissions cold weather combine blanket lahore rest punjab province acrid smog, “fifth season.” india, punjab borders, problem seems getting worse, month reached many pakistanis calling crisis point.yet little official data sources pollution, bad air actually is. announcing new antismog policy month, punjab government admitted “scant” air quality data, saying official safety limit pm2.5 particles, 35 micrograms per cubic meter, “exceeded frequently.”naseem-ur-rehman, director punjab’s environment protection department, admitted government bought six air-quality monitors last year never installed — last week, public outcry lack data led scramble set across lahore. said department “closely monitoring situation,” thursday still releasing air-quality numbers.“this crisis data,” said ahmad rafay alam, environmental lawyer activist lahore. said six meters insufficient city size lahore, let alone punjab.in absence official information, pakistanis taken matters hands. one mr. omar, installed air monitors lahore, islamabad, peshawar karachi, lives. set twitter accounts post readings real time.mr. omar inspired experience living beijing, american embassy changed debate pollution years ago publishing air-quality readings twitter. chinese authorities ultimately prompted set dozens air monitoring stations capital across china.“i realized order air quality become national conversation way china raise awareness hazards solutions, needed numbers there,” said mr. omar, whose pakistan air quality initiative publishes data air pollution information effects health.mr. omar’s twitter updates prompted many lahore’s middle- upper-class residents buy air purifiers face masks.another activist, aysha raja, runs popular bookstore lahore, started facebook group called citizens clean air, discuss possible solutions smog problem put pressure government address it.“the political missing government side,” ms. raja said. “we public need act pressure group, watchdog, make sure something effective.”the throat-burning, eye-stinging smoke plaguing punjab created problems beyond obvious health concerns. tuesday alone, least dozen people killed road accidents linked poor visibility lahore, according police. major highways intermittently closed visibility problems.thirteen power plants run fuel oil shut since last weekend, power generation cut back four others, leading daily outages 12 hours many urban areas. one lahore hospital alone, 500 people arriving daily complaints respiratory difficulties eye irritation.“lahore looks like dystopian wasteland right now, kind like scene ‘blade runner,’” said adil ghazi, business owner.the punjab government says taken several emergency measures, including ban burning crops solid waste. says 100 people arrested crop burning hundreds factories shut proper emission-control equipment. lahore traffic police say collected $50,000 fines recent days drivers whose vehicles meet emissions standards two centers set checking commercial vehicles compliance.but environmentalists say real solution would require much serious measures: improving fuel quality, phasing fuel-guzzling cars, introducing solar renewable sources energy, planting trees large scale improving public transportation reduce number cars roads.“there lot media interest story public anger right now, emergency measures taken, long-term solution doesn’t seem priority,” mr. alam said. “the sense urgency sustained.”most important, said, government needs stop looking others blame, including india, whose crop fires pakistani environmental officials blamed worsening smog year.“no doubt smoke crop burning india big problem, let’s pretend don’t part play crisis,” mr. omar said. “the government needs acknowledge problem create awareness.”
case missing lebanese prime minister stirs middle east tensions beirut, lebanon — lebanese prime minister saad hariri made sudden trip abroad last week, taken first routine visit political patron, saudi arabia. next day, unexpectedly announced resignation video riyadh, saudi capital.he yet return lebanon.on friday, iranian-backed hezbollah movement, part governing coalition home, charged saudis holding will, saudis said protecting unspecified assassination plot.the hariri case become one profusion bewildering events — saudi arabia’s arrest princes wealthy businessmen last weekend ordering citizens lebanon thursday — escalating tensions middle east fueling anxiety whether region verge military conflict.the american secretary state rex w. tillerson warned friday “against party, within outside lebanon, using lebanon venue proxy conflicts manner contributing instability country,” message apparently aimed hezbollah, saudi arabia iran.even events past week, analysts officials region increasingly anxious see volatile combination: impulsive, youthful saudi leader escalating threats roll back growing iranian influence, equally impulsive trump administration signaling broad agreement saudi policies, increasingly pointed warnings israel may eventually fight another war hezbollah.now analysts diplomats scrambling figure latest developments mean, whether connected whether, analysts fear, part buildup regional war.mr. hariri, announced resignation saturday, shown signs planning so.hours later, saturday evening, missile fired yemen came close riyadh shot down. saudi arabia later blamed iran hezbollah missile, suggesting aided iran-aligned houthi rebels yemen fire it.before world chance absorb news, ambitious aggressive saudi arabian crown prince, mohammed bin salman, ordered arrest hundreds saudis — including 11 princes, government ministers kingdom’s prominent businessmen — either crackdown corruption, saudi officials put it, purge, outside analysts suggested.it emerged visit riyadh week before, jared kushner, president trump’s son-in-law adviser, sent missions israel saudi arabia, previously undisclosed meeting crown prince, talking early morning hours. white house announced discussed officials privately said meeting administration’s efforts forge israeli-palestinian peace deal.on monday, saudi officials said considered missile yemen act war iran lebanon, thursday kingdom rattled lebanon ordering citizens evacuate.no one expects saudi arabia, mired war yemen, start another war itself. israel, fought war hezbollah 2006, expressed increasing concern hezbollah’s growing arsenal northern border.on friday, hezbollah’s leader, hassan nasrallah, said saudi arabia asked israel attack lebanon, essentially kidnapping mr. hariri.“i’m talking analysis, information,” said. “the saudis asked israel attack lebanon.”he provided evidence claim, western regional analysts also said that, given confusing unexpected events unpredictable players, could entirely rule scenario.israeli officials, however, publicly predicting another war hezbollah also vowing postpone it.“there region would like israel go war hezbollah fight saudi war last israeli,” said ofer zalzberg, jerusalem-based analyst international crisis group. “there interest here.”prime minister benjamin netanyahu long considered iran israel’s foremost enemy, potential nuclear threat well strategic adversary seeking convert postwar syria staging ground attacks israel corridor transfer missiles weapons hezbollah lebanon.so saudi arabia’s stepped-up efforts oppose iranian influence lebanon drew measured applause jerusalem. many israelis fear aggressive actions saudi crown prince could drag israel war want.daniel shapiro, former united states ambassador israel, said israel saudi arabia pursuing similar goals sharply different speeds levels proficiency.“i’m sure they’re aligned tactically,” said interview. prince mohammed, added, “seems impatient actually spark confrontation.”there signs war preparations israel. country mobilizing troops northern border calling reservists, mr. netanyahu given indication sees conflict imminent.moreover, israel’s war planners predict next war hezbollah may catastrophic, particularly lasts days. hezbollah 120,000 rockets missiles, israel estimates, enough overwhelm israeli missile defenses.many long-range accurate enough bring tel aviv high-rises, sink offshore gas platforms, knock ben-gurion airport level landmark buildings across israel.nor hezbollah necessarily hankering battle israel, according analysts study militant group closely. still fighting syria, backing government president bashar al-assad, drained medical costs wounded fighters survivor benefits families killed, said giora eiland, retired israeli major general former head country’s national security council.“hezbollah organization deep economic crisis today,” mr. eiland said. “but time, weaker are, dependent iranian assistance — might comply iran’s instructions.”but long fears syrian war — hezbollah played decisive role, gaining new influence, power weapons — almost over, hezbollah’s enemies might seek cut size.mr. nasrallah, hezbollah leader, implied friday fight syria nearly finished. saudi arabia’s goal force hezbollah leave syria, said: “no problem. goal achieved. it’s almost anyway.”world leaders sought tamp tensions.president emmanuel macron france left saudi arabia friday brief, last-minute meeting crown prince.during unexpected two-hour visit thursday, mr. macron “reiterated importance france attaches lebanon’s stability, security, sovereignty integrity,” office said. also discussed “the situation lebanon following resignation prime minister hariri,” office said, provided details.a group countries organizations interested lebanon’s stability met friday lebanese president, michel aoun, issued statement expressing “concern regarding situation prevailing uncertainty lebanon” calling lebanon “shielded tensions region.”the members group, international support group lebanon — including united nations, britain, china, france, germany, italy, russia united states, well european union arab league — side issues stake statement seemed reflect broad international concern.at news conference dubai, united arab emirates, meeting, mr. macron said share saudi arabia’s “very harsh opinions” iran.analysts say new war region unlikely warned increased tensions could provoke economic crisis even start war accidentally. miscalculations started wars before, 2006 war israel hezbollah.experts caution israel often mistake two drawn combat.“it’s dangerous situation now,” said amos harel, military reporter haaretz, israeli newspaper. “it takes one provocation, another reaction, get sudden completely control. add saudis, evidently want attack iran looking action, gets even complicated.”
u.s. somali strikes shabab said kill nearly 100 militants mogadishu, somalia — nearly 100 members shabab, qaeda-linked insurgent group somalia, killed separate strikes week, according somali american officials.more dozen militants killed united states airstrike 20 miles north capital mogadishu, according samantha reho, spokeswoman united states africa command. friday strike carried coordination somali government, said email.it 23rd american airstrike country year, second 24 hours. thursday, airstrikes killed “several militants” bay region, 100 miles west mogadishu, according statement africa command.separately, somali national intelligence security agency killed 81 shabab fighters earlier week jilib, southern somalia, government officials said saturday.the state security forces “planted mines militant bomb-making site jilib district,” abdirahman omar osman, minister information, said telephone.jilib shabab stronghold 75 miles north port city kismayo, militants attacked somali army base september.mr. osman claimed attack “destroyed explosive materials” “technical vehicles” shabab stored site. declined give details attack, citing pending investigation.andalus radio, broadcast arm shabab, denied attack jilib. group’s spokesman told radio station fighters killed.neither claim could independently verified, government shabab known exaggerate minimize casualty claims propaganda purposes.in october, truck bomb busy intersection mogadishu killed 358 people; shabab blamed attack.the group also claimed responsibility hotel attack killed 23 people end october.last friday, united states forces carried airstrikes islamic state-affiliated shabab splinter group, operating central somali region puntland. first united states strike islamic state country.the united states mission somalia next day directed nonessential personnel leave mogadishu indefinitely, citing specific threat americans city.
iran sent syria. afghan fighters worry home. yakawlang, afghanistan — iran trained deployed thousands shiite afghans shock troops syria’s sectarian war. members afghan unit, fatemiyoun division, wear shoulder patch recounting words praise iran’s supreme leader badge honor.what fighters might come home much minds officials fear afghanistan may become next great sectarian battleground iran, declared guardian shiites, saudi arabia, long sponsor conservative sunni doctrine around world.“this quite dangerous: happens fatemiyoun force war syria over?” said rahmatullah nabil, former afghan intelligence chief. “the fear rivalry region, iran saudi, shift afghanistan. think clash already shifting here.”there reason worry. first, there’s history: factional divisions drove afghanistan’s devastating civil war 1990s seized foreign powers seeking proxies. there’s new concern: stark increase attacks afghanistan’s shiite minority, mostly sunni extremists loyal islamic state, already providing iran pretext increase meddling country.the attacks received wide coverage iranian news media. one fatemiyoun fighter returned three months ago syria said violence afghan shiites frequent topic raised commanders islamic revolutionary guards corps.the afghan fighter returned home yakawlang, village bamian province taliban massacred 300 shiites 2001. every year, hundreds residents kneel dirt hilltop cemetery beat chests mourning loved ones, names listed metal sign worn time covered rust.“the guards commanders saying that, comes it, make bamian base you, base fatemiyoun,” said returning fighter, like others interviewed article spoke condition anonymity avoid singled attack.“there always talk that; commander would say one day go defend country,” said another fighter, lived iran 20 years refugee joined go syria. said enlisted saw video islamic state fighters “playing football chopped head.” relatives said joined romantic heartbreak.iran long relied soft power armed might afghanistan, playing cultural, religious economic influence western afghan districts near border. though iran resents presence united states military border, mostly supported american-backed administration kabul, choosing stability chaos.but war afghanistan stretched late second decade, stability central government question, iran begun hedging bets, american afghan officials say. extended improving ties taliban, group long seen ideological enemy.afghan officials acknowledge yet seen evidence iran actively rallying fatemiyoun veterans. officials deeply concerned groundwork laid. statements iran’s military leaders, well use afghan fighters conflicts, suggests iran sees force asset future engagements.brig. gen. ismail qaani, deputy commander quds force within revolutionary guards, recently told memorial afghan fighters syria temporary goal larger vision.“fatemiyoun new culture — collection brave men see boundaries borders defending islamic values,” general qaani said, quoted local iranian media.the war yemen one indication afghans already drawn deeper iranian-saudi rivalry, sides. iran send smaller units fatemiyoun cross syrian borders fight yemen, least 1,000 sunni afghan refugees camps pakistan also recruited fight saudi arabia’s behalf yemen, according three senior afghan officials.the core fatemiyoun division included fighters shiite militias iranian support afghan civil war. even went iraq fight behalf iran saddam hussein, lebanon oppose israeli invasion.many afghan fighters, mostly recruited among afghan refugees illegal laborers iran, join salary $600 month, promise iranian residency paperwork deployment syria, usually lasts three months. soon realize benefits designed hook: paperwork needs validated every year, requires enlisting again.“here, scared — government, daesh,” said one former fatemiyoun fighter returned kabul, using another name islamic state. “and don’t go back syria, iranian passport lose validity.”afghan officials say iranian police intensified crackdown illegal afghan immigrants, arresting many 200 day. arrive deportation centers, iranian military officers offer another option.“they said: ‘you come afghanistan work, make money. give two options: go syria, pay money. go back country,’” said former fighter yakawlang, asked identified jawed. detained working iranian construction site taken deportation center where, 200 afghan detainees, became one 60 chose serve syria. returning afghanistan, joined afghan army.extensive ideological indoctrination central part service. recruits told war syria defense holiest shrines shiite faith attack islamic state — group recruiters describe creation united states destabilize middle east.“my intention syria, defend shrine,” said afghan fighter returned home yakawlang, wanted identified name abas.abas described fellow afghan fighters pitched battles resembled brutality afghan civil war.“you know afghan boys fight — wouldn’t even leave chicken behind,” said. “a unit leader would say, ‘we capture hill. us? want much money.’ three hundred people would go, 30 would come back.”other fighters described similarly heavy casualties. one said 15 comrades killed first night arrived front lines. jawed said day unit lost 45 men.“they tell defending shrine zainab, true: believe defending religion faith,” jawed said. “but get there, realize brought slaughterhouse war major powers.”
30 vaquita porpoises left. one died rescue mission. windy afternoon last weekend, cynthia smith boat gulf california, searching one rarest marine mammals world.never vaquita porpoise successfully captured cared humans. dr. smith, veterinarian group known vaquita cpr, knew porpoises — whose black-rimmed eyes dark noses earned moniker “panda sea” — likely disappear without human intervention. scientists estimate fewer 30 vaquitas left wild. last resort.when dr. smith team spotted pair porpoises, managed haul female, hopeful: vaquita calm, vital signs promising. soon moved sea pen began swimming rapidly, abruptly slowed down. time veterinarians released vaquita back wild, late. “she longer breathing,” dr. smith said. “we couldn’t bring back.”in past five years, vaquita population — lives sliver water mexico’s mainland baja california — plummeted 90 percent. humans blame, even hunting vaquitas themselves.the animals, world’s smallest porpoises, get tangled drown nets set illegally catch another endangered species, fish called totoaba. poachers’ bounty organ totoaba called swim bladder, considered delicacy status symbol china sell $50,000 black market. dubbed “aquatic cocaine.”mexico banned totoaba fishing 1993, 2015 — vaquita numbers dwindled 100 — government also banned gill nets, including used catching shrimp kinds fish. gill nets catch totoaba, also trap vaquitas.fishermen still allowed use different type net, intended catching corvina fish, supposed pose threat vaquitas. corvina totoaba fishing seasons overlap, fishermen hide totoaba nets beneath corvina nets boats, said lorenzo rojas-bracho, director vaquita cpr. “you use corvina cover-up, that’s happened,” said.most region’s fishermen, work since ban, poach totoaba swim bladders, fetch $3,000 $10,000 per kilogram, said andrea crosta, director group investigates totoaba trade. equivalent catch shrimp might earn fisherman $200 best.“if you’re water, you’re risking jail time catch shrimp,” said dave bader, spokesman vaquita cpr.after death captured vaquita, scientists agreed shut program. “the evidence today vaquita good candidates protected way,” dr. smith said. “it’s heartbreaking.”the scientists hoped keep animals captivity temporarily, possibly even breed them, gill nets eliminated habitat. wild animal expected experience stress captured, group hoped vaquita could cope handled. (last month, scientists released vaquita calf pulled waters determined young separated mother.)other conservationists critical plan. “i telling going happen, you’re going stress animals,” said paul watson, founder sea shepherd conservation group, also works protect vaquitas. “they elusive, shy; you’re going kill one them.”mr. crosta said admired work biologists, couldn’t possibly solve problem “that starts san felipe ends shop china.” fate vaquita, said, “entirely hands law enforcement.”in past two years, sea shepherd local groups recovered 25,000 yards gill nets gulf, weighing 50 tons. efforts capture vaquitas failed, conservationists say hauling poachers’ nets best bet save species extinction.the mexican government, conservationists say, also needs crack illegal fishing, providing sustainable alternatives community. financial compensation government often never makes hands fishermen, diverted corruption, mr. crosta said.local economies important consideration conservation biology, dr. rojas-bracho said. “you cannot save vaquita, drive fishers extinction.”
commemorating end world war i, poppies pause bright red poppies moments silence, people across world saturday commemorated world war i’s end 99 years ago, gathering armistice day events honored millions died conflict perished wars since.in britain, country paused two minutes silence began 11 a.m., moment nov. 11, 1918 world war officially ended. bustle city life london came halt big ben chimed hour. clock silenced august repair, week began tolling again.thousands wooden crosses adorned poppies names dead planted field remembrance westminster abbey london.on sunday, britain’s royal family attend annual remembrance sunday event memorial cenotaph, prince charles, rather mother, lay head state’s wreath. first time taken place event queen elizabeth country.in france, president emmanuel macron led commemoration events champs-élysées light rain. laid wreath statue prime minister georges clemenceau, center peace efforts time.former french presidents nicolas sarkozy françois hollande attendance mr. macron inspected troops laid wreath tomb unknown soldier arc de triomphe.sydney’s opera house illuminated display red poppies commemorate day.poland, regained sovereignty end world war i, held independence day saturday. european council president donald tusk joined polish leaders home country ceremony warsaw.
shadow delegation stalks official u.s. team climate talks bonn, germany — office official american delegation international climate talks almost always closed. sign taped door informs curious entry authorized staff members only.but there’s another group americans happy found. gathered nearly 27,000-square-foot inflatable tent adorned american flags red, white blue signs proclaiming states, cities businesses “still in” paris agreement, despite president trump’s vow leave it.the alternate american pavilion, free espresso truck, tins themed m&m’s wireless internet tells new users “the u.s. gone dark climate action,” rapidly become hub activity united nations global warming negotiations taking place week. saturday, line people waited rain hear michael r. bloomberg, former mayor new york, gov. jerry brown california handful united states senators, democrats, declare much america remains committed reducing planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions.“we’re in,” said mr. bloomberg, put $1 million toward funding pavilion, according office. “just federal government chosen participate,” added interview, “the american public represented elected officials levels, corporations, universities, understand there’s problem help solve problem we’re going future world.”the dueling american delegations mirror larger division within united states climate change. mr. trump’s decision june withdraw paris agreement popular supporters. thursday, state department interior department sent high-level political officials address conference texas sponsored heartland institute, rejects scientific consensus climate change occurring primarily caused human emissions. scott pruitt, administrator environmental protection agency, sent video message support.“we tremendous natural resources, coal natural gas oil, generate electricity cost-effective way,” mr. pruitt told conference. “we celebrate good stewards.”yet seven 10 americans believe global warming occurring, according yale university survey, 60 percent say least “somewhat worried” effects.“there’s debate united states denialists pooh-pooh thought climate change catastrophic dangers portends, agree scientific academies every country world we’re facing existential threat something it,” governor brown said saturday.he mr. bloomberg announced states, cities businesses pledged abide paris accord track meet obama administration pledge cut emissions least 26 percent 2005 levels 2025.former vice president al gore, longtime champion strong action climate change, said mr. trump represented minority view subject.“president trump speak country whole climate issue,” mr. gore said. “of course he’s president, course authority president has. issue much sync country whole.”according new report america’s pledge, group led mr. bloomberg mr. brown, institutions working meet obama targets separate country, would third-largest economy world united states china. even trump administration plans roll back federal climate change policies like clean power plan, study found, falling clean technology prices, low price natural gas local carbon-cutting efforts already cut domestic greenhouse gas emissions 11.5 percent 2005 2015.the official american negotiating team laying low. career state department officials managing technical negotiations, speaking issues like demanding transparency developing countries progress cutting emissions.the trump administration’s true debut come monday team white house hosts forum promoting fossil fuels nuclear energy. speakers include executives peabody energy, coal company; nuscale power, nuclear engineering firm; tellurian, liquefied natural gas exporter.christiana figueres, former united nations climate envoy spent morning shadow american delegation, said trump administration sending wrong message conference aimed decarbonizing global economy.“coal thanked hard work deserves retired. retirement age needs put retirement home,” ms. figueres said.jim lakely, spokesman heartland institute, said hoped united nations climate delegates would also hear group’s message. “carbon dioxide pollutant driver global warming,” said. “so moral case restricting use fossil fuels, especially vital raising quality length life world’s poorest people.”diplomats countries said glad see governors, mayors americans still committed paris agreement making presence felt. also said weren’t sure voice american policy believe.“unfortunately there’s connect processes,” said dr. ian fry, lead negotiator tuvalu, south pacific island threatened rising seas. “it’s two worlds, unfortunately.”
trump says putin ‘means it’ meddling danang, vietnam — president trump said saturday believed president vladimir v. putin sincere denials interference 2016 presidential elections, calling questions moscow’s meddling politically motivated “hit job” hindering cooperation russia life-or-death issues.speaking meeting privately mr. putin sideline asia pacific economic cooperation summit meeting danang, vietnam, mr. trump said asked whether russia meddled contest, continued focus issue insulting mr. putin.mr. trump said time move past issue united states russia could cooperate confronting nuclear threat north korea, solving syrian civil war working together ukraine.“he said didn’t meddle — asked again,” mr. trump told reporters traveling aboard air force one flew hanoi meetings. “you ask many times. asked again. said absolutely meddle election. saying did.”mr. trump answer direct question whether believed mr. putin’s denials, account conversation indicated far inclined accept russian president’s assertions intelligence agencies, concluded mr. putin directed elaborate effort interfere vote. c.i.a., national security agency, f.b.i. office director national intelligence determined russia meddled election.“every time sees says, ‘i didn’t that,’ really believe tells that, means it,” mr. trump said mr. putin. “i think insulted it, good thing country.”his remarks came investigation trump campaign’s ties russia deepened, disclosures past two weeks showing contacts trump campaign advisers russians previously known, senior campaign officials aware them.on sunday, mr. trump seemed walk comments back bit, saying dispute assessment nation’s key intelligence agencies russia intervened 2016 presidential election.“as whether believe not, i’m agencies, especially currently constituted leadership,” mr. trump said news conference hanoi alongside vietnam’s president, tran dai quang. “i believe agencies. i’ve worked strongly.”mr. trump’s earlier comments inspired immediate ridicule democratic lawmakers, including representative adam b. schiff california, top democrat house intelligence committee, investigating russian interference election.“you know else insulted it, mr. president? american people,” mr. schiff said twitter. “you believe foreign adversary intelligence agencies.”representative ted lieu, another california democrat, called mr. trump “dumb rock.” mr. lieu wrote twitter mr. trump seen classified information russia’s interference election, mr. trump’s comments lies.“trump knows kremlin hacked america last year,” mr. lieu said.senator john mccain arizona, chairman senate armed services committee, said response mr. trump’s statements, “there’s nothing ‘america first’ taking word k.g.b. colonel american intelligence community.”mr. trump angrily dismissed criticism tweet sunday morning.“when haters fools realize good relationship russia good thing, bad thing,” wrote, adding critics “playing politics — bad country.”“i want solve north korea, syria, ukraine, terrorism,” added, “and russia greatly help!”mr. trump also heaped disdain former leaders three american intelligence agencies — john o. brennan, former c.i.a. director; james r. clapper jr., former director national intelligence; james b. comey, f.b.i. director fired year — appearing suggest less trustworthy mr. putin.“i mean, give break — they’re political hacks,” mr. trump said. “you brennan, clapper, comey. comey’s proven liar, he’s proven leaker, look that. president putin strongly, vehemently says nothing that.”the central intelligence agency saturday declined comment remarks president trump russian interference election.last week, response questions views director, mike pompeo, intelligence assessment, c.i.a. said “the director stands by, always stood by, january 2017 intelligence community assessment.”but since taking agency appointed mr. trump, mr. pompeo has, times, sought downplay russian interference election. public appearance last month, said intelligence assessment found russia’s interference affect outcome election.in fact, assessment stated address whether russia impact vote’s outcome. “we make assessment impact russian activities outcome 2016 election,” assessment said.the president said lingering questions whether campaign aides worked russia sway election souring washington’s relationship moscow host vital security issues.“having good relationship russia great, great thing,” mr. trump said. “this artificial democratic hit job gets way, that’s shame, people die.”the allegations collusion subject investigation special counsel robert s. mueller iii, well multiple congressional inquiries.mr. trump’s comments russian president warning deteriorating moscow ties came close apec conference danang, white house steered clear formal meeting two men made point announcing friday one would occur.reporters travel mr. trump barred covering activities saturday, leaving dark informal interactions. video showed shaking hands mr. putin friday gala dinner chatting saturday group photograph apec leaders.the kremlin released statement saying leaders met struck agreement syria, white house immediately confirm information. speaking reporters later, mr. trump said two three brief conversations mr. putin, mostly syria.the talks described joint statement united states russia reaffirmed previous commitments defeat islamic state untangle conflicts forces syrian battlefield.it said mr. trump believed “a good meeting” mr. putin common efforts that, place, would “save thousands lives.”mr. trump’s description exchange election meddling striking suggested concurred mr. putin’s oft-stated contention issue contrived story allowed become detriment united states russia.“this really artificial barrier that’s put front us solving problems russia,” mr. trump said mr. putin. “he says strongly; really seems insulted it, says didn’t it.”mr. trump’s reaction recalled first face-to-face talk two presidents, sideline group 20 summit meeting july hamburg, germany, mr. trump broached subject russia’s election meddling threatened consequences.when mr. putin denied meddling, american officials said time, mr. trump said two countries must agree disagree issue move topics could work together.russian officials provided alternative account, asserting time mr. trump accepted mr. putin’s denial election interference even said united states “exaggerating” moscow’s role without proof.that seemed mr. trump’s message saturday, repeatedly blamed democrats allegedly harming efforts improve relations russia pushing false charges.“i call artificial democrat barrier gets way,” mr. trump said. “which shame.”mr. putin similarly brushed recent revelations russians contacts mr. trump’s campaign team — including aide met woman described mr. putin’s niece — “domestic political struggle” united states.“i think everything connected so-called russian dossier united states manifestation continuing domestic political struggle,” mr. putin said summit meeting, remarks carried russian news media.“i learned yesterday sort meeting relatives representatives administration official figures,” mr. putin said. said press secretary, dmitry peskov, told reports.“i know absolutely nothing — absolutely nothing,” mr. putin said. “it seems like nonsense.”he told reporters danang, “it’s important find opportunity, teams, sit level presidents talk complex relations.” added: “our relations still crisis. russia ready turn page move on.”mr. putin said scheduling conflict unspecified issue protocol gotten way substantive meeting mr. trump. “this connected mr. trump’s schedule, schedule, certain formalities protocol teams, unfortunately, didn’t resolve. well, punished,” said.“still, nothing terrible happened,” mr. putin added. “we spoke course today’s gathering; conversation.”mr. putin said mr. trump behaved meetings “with highest level good correctness,” adding, “he cultured person, comfortable discussing matters related work.”
trump asia: unite north korea, go alone trade danang, vietnam — president trump issued two starkly contradictory calls trip asia past week: nations world must rally behind united states confront nuclear threat north korea, expect america go way trade.reconciling messages hard, may determine near-term fate united states pacific power.in south korea wednesday, mr. trump put mantle superpower leader. speech crackled urgency cold war manifesto, told lawmakers there, “it responsibility duty confront danger together, longer wait, greater danger grows, fewer options become.”two days later, vietnamese resort city danang, american troops came ashore fight communist insurgents, mr. trump reverted protectionist themes presidential campaign. “there place like home,” told pacific rim leaders, warning united states would never sign regionwide trade agreement.at one level, contradictory messages illustrate mr. trump’s transactional approach statecraft — one prizes individual victories unified theory america’s role world. pragmatism also reflected singular brand leader-to-leader diplomacy.from tokyo beijing, mr. trump played dealmaker foreign leaders, flattering personally even administration pushes hard-edge views economic issues.but contradictions also reflect fundamental disarray presidency’s policy toward asia. seems caught geopolitical realism mr. trump’s diplomats economic nationalism political aides.these competing impulses left allies adversaries alike confused america’s motives staying power. time, several experts said, balancing act impossible maintain.already china, mr. trump soft-pedal ambitious trade agenda uphill effort persuade president xi jinping press neighboring north korean government.with smaller nations southeast asia, mr. trump may feel less pressure compromise. comments vietnam lacked solicitous tone used china japan, veering defiant populism used campaign trail. yet go-it-alone message could drive countries orbit china, moved meeting pacific leaders fill vacuum left united states.“the region looking robust american presence, security trade,” said john delury, associate professor chinese studies yonsei university seoul, south korean capital. “for trump come ‘america first’ agenda leaves asian leaders lurch.”jeffrey a. bader, former china adviser president barack obama, said mr. trump’s words would make asian leaders “feel u.s. less factor region.”“they’re always looking hedges local bullies, like china,” added, “and u.s. much less hedge.”indeed, mr. trump odd man meeting asia-pacific economic cooperation forum. 20 leaders formally endorsed idea liberal trade regime, arbitrated world trade organization, condemned moves erect new barriers.“we recognize work w.t.o. ensuring international trade rules based, free, open, fair, transparent, predictable inclusive,” members wrote joint statement released saturday, using language american negotiators reportedly resisted.on friday, mr. trump railed w.t.o., accusing treating united states unfairly. rather uphold principles free trade, said, contributed systematic exploitation americans, “jobs, factories industries stripped united states.”while mr. trump vowed never sign regional trade deal like trans-pacific partnership, withdrew united states early presidency, remaining 11 members deal agreed saturday press it, creating “broader free-trade area” across asia pointedly exclude united states.as pacific leaders gathered saturday, much attention focused whether mr. trump would meet president vladimir v. putin russia.the white house steered clear formal meeting, though two men conferred briefly. united states russia later issued joint statement syria reaffirmed previous commitments defeat islamic state untangle conflicts respective forces syrian battlefield.until saturday evening, mr. trump unloaded reporters air force one mr. putin investigations russian election meddling, trip surprisingly disciplined exercise president.with jam-packed schedule, tweeted sparingly kept generally message. white house cut unscripted moments, limiting media access acquiescing chinese reluctance allow questions joint statements mr. xi.but mr. trump let loose sunday morning, fired back north korea’s leader, kim jong-un, north korean state media disparaged “lunatic old man.”“why would kim jong-un insult calling ‘old,’” mr. trump said twitter, “when would never call ‘short fat?’ oh well, try hard friend.”mr. trump avoided ridiculing mr. kim personally trip, though listed catalog north korea human rights abuses speech seoul, drew angry response north korea.at news conference sunday, mr. trump also said open friends mr. kim. “strange things happen life,” said podium next vietnam’s president, tran dai quang. “it’s certainly possibility. happen, would good thing — tell — north korea, would also good lots places, would good world.”throughout trip, face-to-face meetings leaders harmonious — even leaders, like president moon jae-in south korea, differences. keeping mr. trump’s pattern throughout presidency, though perhaps never striking beijing, lavished praise mr. xi, criticize china’s trade practices day later vietnam.“there value treating counterparties respect, trying build relationships them, despite distasteful nature it,” said mr. bader, former obama official.but mr. trump’s stops northeast asia aimed building coalition north korea, swing southeast asia seemed calculated remind people little use post-world war ii concept united states global leader.at moments, speech vietnam tub-thumping atmosphere one may given pennsylvania wisconsin. member audience broke applause accused countries opening markets american goods, sardonic mr. trump exclaimed: “funny. must one beneficiaries.”administration officials framed speech chance mr. trump promote “free open indo-pacific,” white house embraced answer mr. obama’s “asia pivot.” president put little meat bones, emphasizing sovereignty independence nations common interests universal rights.“human rights are, essence, international agreement,” said john sifton, director asia advocacy human rights watch. “when talks trade terms, suggests doesn’t hold multilateral legal system high regard — that’s frightening.”human rights groups, mr. sifton said, focusing energies lobbying canada japan rather united states.chinese leaders dwell human rights either, say least. mr. xi came vietnam primed take ground usually commanded american president. speech, came right mr. trump’s, declared, “opening bring progress, close inevitably lag behind.”in absence alternative sales pitch united states, experts said, china inevitably make gains.“china made significant inroads cultivating southeast asia,” said tang siew mun, head asean studies center iseas-yusof ishak institute singapore. “this isn’t entirely bad proposition region, china’s success disastrous u.s., chinese advances u.s.’s expense.”“at end day,” mr. tang said, “‘america first’ may devolve u.s. home alone.”
vietnam, bind, tries chart path u.s. china hanoi, vietnam — vietnam’s full-on war united states lasted decade. tensions northern neighbor, china, persisted thousands years — millennium direct chinese rule bloody border war 1979 recent confrontations south china sea.if geography destiny, fate vietnam expert bargaining beijing balancing superpowers.so rest world struggling reckon china’s assertive moves pacific, vietnamese, hosts year’s asia-pacific economic cooperation forum, offering guidance.“i would like give advice whole world, especially united states, must careful china,” said maj. gen. le van cuong, retired director institute strategic studies vietnamese ministry public security.like good communist soldier, general cuong pays attention details leaders’ abstruse speeches, noted president xi jinping china referred homeland’s status “great” “strong power” 26 times lengthy address last month.“xi jinping’s ambitions dangerous whole world,” general cuong said. “china uses money buy many leaders, none countries close allies, like north korea, pakistan cambodia, done well. countries close america done much better. must ask: this?”as southeast asian nations acutely aware positioned china’s backyard, vietnam worried american inattention.in name halting communism, united states sent troops indochina propped dictators elsewhere asia. american-devised security landscape also created stable environment regional economies expanded.now, mr. trump’s decision take united states trans-pacific partnership trade pact, would given 11 economies alternative chinese-led economic order, left vietnamese feeling vulnerable.“as vietnamese, always trying find way balance china’s power,” said nguyen ngoc anh, professor foreign trade university hanoi. “for us, tpp isn’t economic issue. it’s also geopolitics social issues.”ms. anh noted local liberals cheered trade pact would forced vietnam adhere international labor government accountability standards hanoi might otherwise meet.with 11 members pact agreeing proceed without united states, washington’s withdrawal — mention mr. trump’s “america first” speech apec meeting friday — leaves nations wondering best option may chinese-backed trade pacts financing deals fewer guarantees workers less official transparency.“we communist countries, people like vietnam don’t want develop way china has,” said ms. anh, studied economics soviet-era czechoslovakia. “we want follow western-oriented way.”while united states largest market vietnamese exports, vietnam’s biggest trading partner china. yet vietnam runs significant trade deficit populous neighbor, vietnamese economists worry china doesn’t play fairly.“china one countries world doesn’t observe international law many areas,” said le dang doanh, influential economist advised members vietnamese politburo trade.the vietnamese watched alarm last year beijing reacted international tribunal’s dismissal china’s expansive claims south china sea ignoring — even mocking — judgment. vietnam four governments claims resource-rich waterway conflict china’s.it hard overstate level vietnamese antipathy toward china. country public protest rare risky, large-scale demonstrations vietnam recent years chinese.but national aversion puts vietnam’s leadership bind. cannot ignore china’s growing economic magnetism. many members apec, china ranks no. 1 trading partner.in return investment project financing — roads, railways, dams, airports colossal government buildings — leaders regional economies increasingly beijing’s bidding.cambodia laos given crucial support beijing’s south china sea claims. thailand complied beijing’s demand return chinese dissidents counted haven.even philippines appeared yield, despite fact lodged successful south china sea suit hague. days mr. trump’s visit manila sunday, disclosed president rodrigo duterte ordered construction halted disputed sandbar south china sea, move widely regarded intended placate beijing.since taking office last year, mr. duterte deemed era american military economic pre-eminence over, called china country’s best faithful friend. rewarded billions dollars infrastructure investment beijing.“the u.s. playing catch-up china’s charm offensive since turn new century,” said tang siew mun, heads southeast asia center iseas-yusof ishak institute, think tank singapore.vietnam, country, grown practiced divining challenge two pacific powers — fought within last half-century.in 1970s 1980s, china seized spits land south china sea vietnam controlled unoccupied claimed hanoi.yet perhaps sensing american reluctance confront china south china sea, vietnam declined take china international court, philippines did, even chinese turned disputed reefs sandbars militarized islands.chinese pressure continues, despite united states’ supplying vietnamese coast guard cutter new patrol boats.this year, spanish company prospecting rights vietnam suspended drilling oil block coast vietnam. beijing claims part waters own.in 2014, chinese parked state-owned oil rig danang, mr. trump attended apec summit meeting friday, forceful incursion hanoi considers territorial waters.“living next china, ambitions become powerful country world, easy,” said vo van tao, popular political blogger. “to lower heat, vietnam needs withdraw areas belong vietnam.”grand strategy beyond worldview vietnamese like van duc. 1979, stationed border china, part antiaircraft artillery unit, hundreds thousands people’s liberation army soldiers china flooded south.the vietnamese, outmanned, put unexpectedly robust defense. within month, chinese, professing taught vietnamese lesson interfering regional geopolitics, withdrew.during war china, mr. duc 17 years old, came understand one thing today, security guard living hanoi, said still clings to.“we cannot trust chinese,” said. “they ancient enemy, change.”
employees big french cleaning company win sexual harassment case paris — five immigrant workers significant sexual harassment discrimination case friday one france’s largest cleaning companies, moment read decision, hardly thought chance.the four women one man brought case worked busy gare du nord train station paris little minimum wage cleaning eurostar, thalys long-distance rail carriers.“we considered like trash, now, women also speak out,” said one workers, houria dahmani, minutes hearing court’s decision nondescript building north paris. “we worked fear, anxiety, it’s time change that.”“it’s big victory us, employees,” ms. dahmani, 56, added. “there justice france, even us.”although amounts money awarded small american standards, sexual harassment cases france adjudicated all, particularly large company, said marilyn baldeck, lawyer european association violence women work, helped workers long legal process.the court concurred four women sexually harassed man “team leader” h. reinier, subsidiary onet, one france’s largest cleaning companies. harassment started uncomfortable kisses inappropriate touching became intrusive.“he would come behind bathroom leaning clean rub me,” said karima emtir, another plaintiffs, bursting tears days award described interview treatment endured.the harassment escalated, women said, supported co-worker, rachid lakhal, whistle-blower accused one superiors kickback scheme fired twice — reinstated. mr. lakhal’s discrimination case company heard along women’s; also damages.h. reinier’s lawyer, virginie monteil, said company decided whether appeal done audit beginning training program salaried employees managers “risk prevention.”when asked audit mention sexual harassment, ms. monteil said company dealing broader “psychosocial issues.”the case also noteworthy mr. lakhal spoken behalf women testified them. given largest monetary award, essentially creating precedent rewarding someone testified support allege harassment.“what significant,” ms. baldeck told women mr. lakhal meeting decision released. “it sends strong message women talked me, afraid file complaint.”ms. baldeck said interview spoken six female employees suffered similar treatment.ms. emtir, one plaintiffs, said co-workers join case feared reprisals, including losing jobs, although poorly paid helped make ends meet. one, though, recently changed mind filed complaint, said lawyers involved case.the four women 20,000 euros (about $23,000) sexual harassment 10,000 euros (about $11,500) discrimination. mr. lakhal, 47, 100,000 euros ($116,000).“it’s money,” mr. lakhal said. “we don’t care money. it’s justice system acknowledging discrimination, sexual harassment.”like mr. lakhal, ms. emtir, 49, also fired. sought get jobs back, court order reinstated.the french labor court judges wrote measures taken far h. reinier “to protect four employees nonexistent” preventive measures “wholly insufficient.” further, court said, women reported sexual harassment, “systematically sanctioned it.”the company declined several years even move man accused harassment different location. ms. monteil, company’s lawyer, said h. reinier’s point view, “put everyone equal footing.”that decision meant women see harasser every day went work, fearing always would touch follow train bathroom, shut door attack sexually.maud beckers, women’s lawyer, said decision issued company found responsible environment sexual harassment threats employees complained, company “clean house” fire accused well directors allowed pernicious behavior.as friday, man named responsible harassment court decision, mbarek bachchikh, still working company, according ms. monteil, company’s lawyer.sncf, france’s national railroad, continued use company cleaning services even questions sexual harassment criminal activities raised. company communications official said friday sncf “welcomed decision.”the official added case involved internal matters subcontractor, would offer comment.all four women longtime employees h. reinier worked cleaning trains one company’s sites paris years. ms. emtir 17-year veteran company fired 2015. three women algerian one moroccan, mr. lakhal.the escalation sexual advances began 2012, ms. emtir ms. dahmani said interview, mr. lakhal told management union delegate required people hired cleaners pay one two months salary, 2,000 euros ($2,200), exchange job contract.after mr. lakhal’s complaint, women said, delegate tried get mr. lakhal fired forcing employees sign petition saying poor worker liar, among things. four women refused sign petition because, said, knew true, sexual harassment intensified.the kickback accusations subject separate, criminal case along sexual harassment charges. sexual harassment adjudicated civil criminal proceedings.with court’s decision hand, two women mr. lakhal went gare du nord friday heads held high. ms. dahmani smiled daughter, come her. “it’s good walk station without ashamed,” said.
roy moore, lebanon, louis c.k.: friday evening briefing (want get briefing email? here’s sign-up.)good evening. here’s latest.1. senate republicans scrambling figure block roy moore’s path senate, accusations emerged made sexual advances teenage girls 30s.mr. moore, above, republican nominee alabama senate seat vacated attorney general jeff sessions. special election scheduled dec. 12.he remained defiant, insisting interview fox news would stay race denying “had contact” woman says molested 14.worried republicans debating fielding write-in candidate trying delay election. interview, senator mitch mcconnell would say whether would seat mr. moore wins._____2. political intrigue elsewhere: mystery surrounding resignation lebanon’s prime minister fueling anxiety whether region verge new conflict.after sudden flight riyadh week ago, saad hariri announced stepping iranian meddling lebanon hezbollah.he remains there, saudis say plot assassinate him. head hezbollah countered saudi arabia essentially kidnapped mr. hariri — asked israel attack lebanon. above, poster beirut reads, “we saad.”_____3. president trump pitched “america first” trade policy business leaders asia-pacific economic cooperation forum danang, vietnam.the remarks strikingly hostile pro-trade audience, contrasted sharply speech president xi jinping china championed robust engagement world.in events, president trump met american veterans vietnam war, above, signed proclamation commemorating conflict’s 50th anniversary. exempted military service war bone spur diagnosis._____4. published video interview stephen bannon, breitbart news chief former strategist president trump, new york headquarters week. watch here.mr. bannon said senator mitch mcconnell “has go” lashed media’s coverage president. key takeaways.jeremy peters, reporter conducted interview, discuss another episode new podcast, “the new washington,” tomorrow. click subscribe hear past episodes._____5. “these stories true.”the comedian louis c.k. admitted engaged sexual misconduct five women, reported yesterday. expressed remorse, apologize. here’s full statement.the release forthcoming comedy, “i love you, daddy,” canceled distributor, netflix canceled special him._____6. gov. kenneth e. mapp u.s. virgin islands plans go washington next week request $7 billion aid.more two months hurricanes irma maria struck, many residents still grappling daily survival. checked people interviewed intermediate aftermath storms.“it feels like we’re actually making bit progress,” said kimmeiqua mahoney, seated above. “but it’s still long, long way go.”_____7. dozens young immigrants mailed daca renewal forms weeks due. paperwork delayed mail — denied late.though postal service took responsibility, immigration authorities unsympathetic: “uscis responsible mail service individual chooses, delays part mail service providers,” official said._____8. terrible air quality delhi making headlines. lahore, pakistan’s second-largest city, giving indian capital run money. nearly two weeks, lahore like one huge airport smokers’ lounge.the air quality usually bad november, crop burning, cold weather higher emissions. year reached crisis point, critics say government isn’t enough address it.“lahore looks like dystopian wasteland right now, kind like scene ‘blade runner,’” one local business owner said._____9. among panic-inducing headlines published week, one stood out: “cancer doctors cite risks drinking alcohol.” american society clinical oncology warned even modest drinking could increase risk cancer. nearly 500 readers commented story.“i’m waiting headline reads, ‘living longer causes cancer,’” one wrote. “because statement would also, technically, true.”our colleagues upshot argue taken grain salt, perhaps rim margarita glass._____10. finally, louis c.k. supposed “the late show” thursday, new york premiere new movie, “i love you, daddy.” events canceled reported sexual misconduct.stephen colbert briefly discussed cancellation. seth meyers may captured reaction among comics best, starting bit mention accusations roy moore.“politics full perverts deviants, i’m glad work comedy,” said. “aw, damn it!”have great weekend._____your evening briefing posted 6 p.m. eastern.and don’t miss morning briefing, posted weekdays 6 a.m. eastern, weekend briefing, posted 6 a.m. sundays.want catch past briefings? browse here.if photographs appear order, please download updated new york times app itunes google play.what like? want see here? let us know briefing@nytimes.com.
airstrikes afghanistan last week kill civilians? u.s. u.n. disagree kunduz, afghanistan — mohammad anas, college student, sheltered friends relatives mosque listened, terrified, boom american airstrikes pummeling taliban positions near village northern afghanistan nov. 3.when bombing subsided next morning, villagers came tried return home, taliban insurgents ordered begin recovering bodies slain fighters.before finished, mr. anas said, warplanes returned bombed group. over, village elders say, 19 civilians left dead least six others wounded — including mr. anas, whose wounds minor.“three friends dead,” said.the united nations confirmed broad outlines mr. anas’s account, saying least 10 civilians killed airstrikes nov. 4 kunduz province. american military afghanistan insists dead wounded taliban insurgents.it least fourth time past two years airstrikes hotly contested area led controversy whether civilians killed.for residents village, qatl-e aam chardara district, episode bitter irony.in 1985, soviet troops killed 650 residents, leaving handful alive. residents renamed village qatl-e aam, means “massacre” dari.“there many bodies turned whole village cemetery,” one survivor 1985 violence, ghulam nabi, 80, recalled.another survivor massacre faiz mohammad, 53, said lost 13-year-old son last week’s airstrikes. “he finished learning holy quran heart,” mr. mohammad said.the american military moved unusually quickly release results internal investigation airstrikes, declaring tuesday “investigation conducted independently concluded civilian casualties.”but next day, wednesday, united nations mission afghanistan took unusual step issuing series four posts twitter saying investigation found least 10 civilians killed.“accounts indicate victims civilians forced age’s retrieve bodies earlier fighting,” mission said twitter, referring antigovernment elements, kunduz usually means taliban insurgents.the united nations’ account similar new york times reporter area told interviews week local villagers vicinity around qatl-e aam. “the taliban forced everyone morning retrieve bodies,” said one villager, hajji mahmoud, 69, said wounded head arm.in statement, united states military said “numerous enemy combatants killed,” adding account supported governor kunduz, asadullah omarkhel, defense ministry spokesman, maj. gen. dawlat waziri.but less senior officials area gave divergent accounts. nimatullah timory, head public awareness governor omarkhel’s office, said one civilian killed five civilians wounded, although added death occurred civilian tried remove body wounded uzbek insurgent hide evidence foreign fighters’ working taliban.the american military claimed particularly telling finding “no hospitals clinics local area indicated treatment people wounds armed conflict.” times reporter saw six wounded patients kunduz regional hospital nov. 4 said victims airstrikes.mr. anas, student, among group 70 villagers came city kunduz, capital province, protest outside governor’s house wednesday. displayed photographs cellphone said showed children victims. “the governor sitting office doesn’t know real story,” said. elders village presented governor list 19 civilians claimed killed, men except two children.asked divergent accounts, liam mcdowall, director strategic communications united nations mission, said, “the u.n. past decade proved credible reliable source information devastating impact conflict civilians afghanistan.”“the u.n. afghanistan is, given unsparing focus safeguarding lives afghan civilians, subject regular criticism parties conflict,” mr. mcdowall added. “there rarely incident day work protect lives impartial reporting challenged.”he declined elaborate.an american military spokesman, capt. thomas r. gresback navy, said, “if additional credible evidence there, we’re open hearing it, date one come forward anything.”the united states stepped airstrikes part president trump’s new strategy afghanistan, air force reporting dropped 900 munitions august september year, compared 260 similar period 2016.airstrikes kunduz particularly numerous, three earlier serious claims resulted civilian casualties past two years.those three earlier claims civilian casualties came airstrikes obama administration.the serious attack doctors without borders hospital city kunduz oct. 3, 2015, killed 42 civilians, patients staff members hospital. lengthy investigation, american military commander afghanistan, gen. john w. nicholson jr., apologized, blaming human error, 16 soldiers, one special operations general, disciplined.in june 2016, also chardara district airstrikes last saturday occurred, afghan officials local residents claimed american airstrikes taliban prison killed 7 16 prisoners.last november, 33 civilians two american soldiers killed outskirts city kunduz, including many women children. lengthy investigation, american military admitted january 33 civilians killed said taliban used civilian homes cover.
pot advertising, leonard cohen chimps: canada letter legal recreational marijuana smoke wafts canadian skies eight months, subject wrote week. authorities mound details work legalization work sellers buyers. much larger population — canadians — encounter one area particular: advertising.how promotion canada’s latest legal vice regulated? federal government two models.one system cigarettes, effectively bans conventional advertising marketing, requires stores keep cigars cigarettes sight mandates health warnings gruesome photos dominate packaging. (a bill parliament would also make tobacco industry use generic packaging, without logos.)or government could follow regulatory pattern created beer, wine spirits. rules vary province, pretty much anything goes showing actors models actually sipping drinks, making blatant appeals children though, say, cartoon characters. ads spirits feature “consume responsibly” statements.a group 17 medical marijuana companies — gearing much bigger recreational market — released advertising proposals week. one’s surprise, largely mirror alcohol model.they cast advertising means lifting sales something public service. news release, group said marijuana ads “vital legal industry tools necessary push back canada’s thriving illegal market, time educating adult consumers various product strains, responsible use, differentiate high low quality cannabis product.”most medical community experts drug abuse oppose widespread pot advertising.“we opportunity learn alcohol,” said rebecca jesseman, director senior policy adviser canadian center substance use addiction, federally funded agency. “we really need take cautious approach.”among things, ms. jesseman wants cigarette-like limits packages show warnings marijuana-impaired driving health dangers inhaling heated vapors.the government won’t announce plan bill legalize marijuana becomes law. then, ms. jesseman expects heavy lobbying industry.“i envy people government making decision,” told me.read: ready not, recreational marijuana use coming canadaandrea kannapell, editor times, made pilgrimage new york montreal tribute concert one city’s best known native sons, musician poet leonard cohen, died year ago month. here’s report.here’s review clips tribute concert, televised canadian broadcasting corporation january, featuring sting, k.d. lang, adam cohen lana del rey. musée d’art contemporain de montréal presenting special exhibition mr. cohen’s work art inspired, including projections lyrics songs grain elevator dominates montreal’s port, well concert series full performances five albums.after century, medical research chimpanzees effectively ended north america. moving chimps universities research centers retirement sanctuaries united states taking longer advocates intelligent sociable animals hoped.jim gorman, times science writer, joined chimps trip new home produced moving, witty, not-to-be-missed story new lives.read: lab chimps moving sanctuaries — slowlyone week’s must reads times appeared opinion. received cochlear implant seven years ago, rachel kolb profoundly deaf. time, frequently asked could hear music. finally can, ms. kolb written essay experience. reaction wasn’t expected. read essay, sure watch innovative 360 video ms. kolb’s relationship music hearing world.read: sensations sound: deafness musicwatch: 360 video: sensations soundtwo filmmakers vancouver, british columbia, gained access perhaps mysterious hockey venue world: pyongyang ice rink north korea.—my colleague dan levin made trip hart river yukon territory. indigenous groups thought deal preserve watershed. territorial government vision 26,000 square miles emphasizes exploitation gas, coal minerals. dispute may shatter trust indigenous non-indigenous canadians.—roy halladay, former toronto blue jays pitcher died plane crash, mourned many baseball fans. appreciation, tyler kepner, interviewed halladay book pitching spring, wrote "legacy, me, powerful instructive field: purity effort matters most.”
‘it’s black thing’: offensive quip becomes rallying cry brazil são paulo, brazil — black brazilians reappropriated insulting quip prominent television anchorman, using words — “it’s black thing” — draw attention contributions brazilians african ancestry lingering impact racial subjugation brazil.the quip made video recorded last year surfaced week brazil.in video, william waack, anchorman brazil’s largest television network, globo, preparing live shot guest, white house background, covering presidential campaign united states.in response loud honking nearby car, mr. waack said breath, “it’s black thing. doubt,” laughed guest.reaction social media swift indignant video started circulate.by wednesday evening, #écoisadepreto — portuguese “it’s black thing” — one top trending topics twitter brazil.the day, shortly mr. waack scheduled anchor news show, globo announced “removed” mr. waack situation could clarified.“globo viscerally opposed racism forms,” company said statement, adding mr. waack made comments “everything indicates racist nature.”the video leaked former video editor globo, said appalled remarks time afraid could lose job released video public.the video editor, diego rocha pereira, longer works network, said heard comments sat network’s control room.“i rewound video sure, couldn’t believe would said that,” told jovem pan radio station. “i disgusted, recorded cellphone.”mr. waack publicly responded. statement, globo said, “waack affirms doesn’t remember said, given audio clear, offers sincere apologies feel offended.”on social media, remark turned campaign, shining light accomplishments famous black brazilians like 19th-century novelist poet machado de assis, well global leaders, including nelson mandela, sports stars artists.many people written twitter struggles country long history slavery racism. one person wrote: “#it’sablackthing mother, black, single woman, raising 7 children without help white man (my father).”brazil last country americas abolish slavery, 1888. three centuries, four million africans brought forced work fields, mines private homes.today, 50 percent brazilians identify black biracial, many brazilians say racial harmony exist united states.but others say figures point different reality — brazil country life expectancy black men considerably lower white counterparts, people african descent earn 36 percent less nonblack brazilians.in recent years, globo television networks used powerful positions combat racism prominent roles black brazilians soap operas reality tv shows.when brazil’s first black weather broadcaster prime-time news broadcast — maria júlia coutinho, known widely nickname, maju — subjected verbal abuse, colleagues globo promoted #weareallmaju campaign.in case mr. waack, veteran journalist gained respect colleagues years coverage fall berlin wall numerous conflicts middle east, globo said talks would happen next.
duterte, philippine president, boasts killed someone teenager president rodrigo duterte philippines said friday stabbed someone death teenager, latest claim leader boasted personally killing people defending violent crackdown drugs.“when teenager, jail, rumble there,” mr. duterte said speech filipinos danang, vietnam. “at age 16, already killed someone.”he said stabbed person “just look,” asked audience vietnam imagine could president.“i won’t let hook” mess around filipinos, said. “never mind human rights advocates.”mr. duterte’s spokesman, harry roque, said comment meant joke. officials loyal president said tendency exaggerate.“i think jest,” mr. roque said. “the president uses colorful language pinoys overseas,” added, referring filipinos.the comments came leader defended government’s brutal countrywide crackdown drugs. speech met applause laughter.mr. duterte vietnam dozens world leaders annual asia-pacific economic cooperation summit meeting.in 2015, mayor davao city, mr. duterte said interview esquire stabbed someone death 17 years old. december 2016, said time mayor, personally killed least three people.the philippine leader widely criticized extrajudicial crackdown drug dealers users left estimated 4,000 people dead since may 2016, according local news outlets.human rights groups condemned mr. duterte, saying crackdown allowed police officers vigilantes ignore due process take justice hands.mr. duterte set meet president trump sunday manila, part american president’s 12-day tour several asian nations. mr. trump praised mr. duterte year, congratulating “unbelievable job drug program.”
lebanese rocker caught human rights incident rainbow flags hamed sinno, 29-year-old lebanese rocker, showed christopher street manhattan looking agitated. gone wrong location maison kayser, french boulangerie, time cab got west village hour late. wearing headband loose black shirt, forgotten photo taken, apologized “bad hair.”rock-star problems, right? mr. sinno’s complicated most. one openly gay celebrities arab world, become de facto mouthpiece lightning rod, becoming embroiled international human-rights issues really wants play music.his indie band, mashrou’ leila, acquired young, progressive fan base past years. group’s home country, lebanon, boho crowds flock see mr. sinno, sequins muscle t-shirts, sing songs alternately brooding buoyant, sensual bitingly satirical.but trouble seems follow everywhere. sept. 22, group played concert 35,000 people cairo, spectators waved rainbow flags. within days, seven people arrested “promoting sexual deviancy,” part president abdel fattah el-sisi’s crackdown homosexuality. number grew least 65 end october.arrestees subject anal exams test gay sex. mashrou’ leila banned egypt, homophobic rumors swirled online, including concert 35,000-person orgy — “which, even try entertain idea, seems really, really difficult organize,” mr. sinno said bitter laugh.“it’s like we’re going around burning holy books peeing national monuments,” said, ordering skim milk latte tartine poulet. outside window, rainbow flags commonplace stop signs. “it piece fabric. people saying exist, someone problem that.”he added, wearily, “i love do. frightening.”at times, band courted controversy, canceled 2012 gig opening red hot chili peppers show solidarity bds, movement calling boycotts, divestment sanctions israel. often mr. sinno’s sexuality provocation enough.the group banned jordan, twice. “and second time much less polite it,” mr. sinno said. “they flat out, ‘we don’t want he’s gay.’” rolled eyes. “really nice government.”the band spending fall united states, teaching graduate course new york university intersection music politics. mr. sinno, self-described “pretentious writing snob” (his lyrics teem allusions sappho sylvia plath), described students “all extremely woke,” outlined syllabus includes bertolt brecht, judith butler french rap duo blaze.on days teaching, group performing cities including philadelphia minneapolis. “my mother really doesn’t want go back beirut,” mr. sinno said. “she’s like, ‘stay states!’ ‘i can’t afford house here, woman!’ she’s like, ‘i’ll buy house!’”but mr. sinno, dual lebanese united states citizenship, doesn’t feel much ease america middle east, saying “in face” racism encounters least bad homophobia back home. last year, mr. sinno le bain, nightclub meatpacking district, guy getting elevator shouted, “build wall!”“it took second understand talking me, thought latino,” said.that trip, mr. sinno found torn mass shooting gay nightclub pulse orlando, fla., wanting stand gay lesbian community even online trolls called “terrorist.” “it’s literally disillusioning away romanticized narrative u.s. had,” said.he picked chicken tartine. “this stuff pretty people allowed eat,” said leftover bread. “i met boy san francisco he’s, like, way league.”while growing beirut, mr. sinno found western pop culture lifeline. representations gay people lebanese culture, sought refuge “will & grace” oscar wilde. discovered allan ginsberg freshman year american university beirut, mother teaches english.he idolized grunge rockers like eddie vedder kurt cobain (the “love life”) went “a bit riot-grrrl moment.” though mr. sinno often compared freddie mercury, part bushy mustache, doesn’t see resemblance.mashrou’ leila, roughly translates “an overnight project,” began 2008, someone university’s design department put sign musical workshop. 2012, band released two albums headlining lebanese music festivals, mr. sinno quit job advertising firm.though grew speaking mostly english, studied arabic write lyrics, goal “bringing poetry arabic pop music.” one song, “shim el yasmine,” “smell jasmine” (“i would liked keep near me, / introduce parents”) described arab pop’s first gay love song.the band’s recent album, “ibn el leil” (“son night”), inspired part mr. sinno’s period escapism beirut nightclubs death father, urologist. “i booze quite time,” said. (he sober almost year.) but, added, “clubs necessarily political.”as finished lunch, phone began blow texts bandmates, got look panic. another international incident? no, nothing urgent, said annoyance relief. bandmates return lebanon, face uncertain future. “in past two years, we’ve lost two biggest markets, jordan egypt,” mr. sinno said glumly.and fans still wave rainbow flags?“i think people likely before.”
air force, colleague feared church gunman would ‘shoot place’ start air force career, devin p. kelley picked demanding selective intelligence analyst school. walked first monday class crisp blue uniform, shined shoes, perhaps first time years, hope. didn’t last.two years later, found run, bleak el paso bus station midnight trying catch first greyhound back home failing school, charged assault escaping psychiatric hospital.as waited jean shorts hooded sweatshirt, ticket hand proof failed.for mr. kelley, last sunday opened fire rural texas church, killing 26 people, air force could turning point — source discipline direction embraced troubled childhood. military records interviews fellow airmen show despite repeated chances, career fell apart weight depression rage, time mind churning half-laid plans kill superiors.after months service, mr. kelley slid back long decline left wreckage broken relationships, criminal convictions eventually bloodshed.“the air force tried give chances problem problem problem,” said jessika edwards, former air force staff sergeant worked mr. kelley 2011, near end career.“he dude edge,” ms. edwards added, noting would appear informal squadron social functions black black trench coat. “this hindsight. scared time.”even left military, contacted facebook disturbing posts obsession dylann s. roof, charleston, s.c., mass murderer, target practices using dogs ordered online.ms. edwards said military tried counseling tough love, nothing seemed work. punished poor performance, mr. kelley would cry, scream shake rage, vowing kill superiors, recalled. temper unsettling warned others squadron go easy likely come back “shoot place.”the air force, like civilian world, often ill-equipped intervene violence occurs. though mr. kelley’s behavior raised flags, commanders say limited options crime committed. even then, priority often getting problem troops military, giving little thought possible impact society. facing intense criticism failure report mr. kelley, air force opened investigation case many questions remain could done.for mr. kelley, military likely encouraging option first. family tradition going texas a&m university: grandfather, father siblings became aggies. growing new braunfels, tex., mr. kelley get grades attend one state’s top schools. besides earning mostly c’s, amassed least seven suspensions insubordination, profanity, dishonesty drugs, according school records.the air force offered clean slate chance prove himself. enlisted right high school 2009. based above-average aptitude test scores, picked become fusion analyst — intelligence specialist trained interpret communicate latest information enemy tactics. promised clear career path top-secret clearance.in spring 2010, two months basic training, arrived goodfellow air force base near san angelo, tex., rigorous six-month intelligence technical school. graduating required passing polygraph test background check get security clearance.mr. kelley washed graduation.the air force provide details whether mr. kelley passed required polygraph, typically scrutinizes mental health, drug use, family issues disruptive behavior. military official briefed mr. kelley’s air force record said cut school “academic reasons.”several airmen went school mr. kelley said closed facebook group viewed new york times last long. remembered weeks.“i didn’t even realize long was,” one said. “i thought discharged tech school, let alone retrained different career field.”mr. kelley’s next assignment decidedly less demanding. records show air force made traffic management apprentice, job includes moving people freight, requires minimal aptitude score. still, struggled.he sent 2011 holloman air force base new mexico assigned 49th logistics readiness squadron. six days arrived, married 19-year-old tessa loge hometown — move allowed new wife baby another relationship move base housing him, gave increased pay dependents.at base, mr. kelley worked receiving department, entering information incoming supplies computer. smart enough, said ms. edwards, worked office, new wife fought constantly investigated local child protective services child abuse. wife, later divorced him, declined comment.mr. kelley emotionally unstable unfocused, ms. edwards said, often would work.as punishment, superiors would give mr. kelley menial tasks, mopping scrubbing toilets, would send rage, ms. edwards said. “he would get upset,” said, “and keep saying, ‘i want kill them.’”he formally disciplined multiple times, said, including sneaking gun onto base car.the air force confirmed ms. edwards served squadron mr. kelley, evaluations show performed poorly.the squadron wrote airman every infraction, ms. edwards said, laying paper trail would allow air force discharge poor performance. could that, april 2012, mr. kelley arrested detained pointed gun wife, hitting choking her, hit baby stepson, fracturing skull.his wife filed divorce year.while mr. kelley awaited court-martial, air force sent civilian psychiatric hospital santa teresa, n.m., where, according local emergency dispatch records, given medication depression, anxiety attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, considered “high-risk patient.”on night june 7, 2012, mr. kelley escaped, made way 12 miles south desert night el paso bus station bought ticket home.his counselor hospital called police, according police report, warning mr. kelley talked killing chain command air force told patients recently bought guns online.mr. kelley quickly caught kept pretrial confinement court-martial commanders concerned threats, said christensen, retired colonel time air force’s chief prosecutor. pleaded guilty two counts assault november 2012 sentenced 12 months confinement — relatively light sentence.“a serious injury child worth year confinement,” said mr. christensen, president protect defenders, advocacy group victims sexual assault domestic violence military.mr. christensen said military career seen service members receive punishment mr. kelley got merely abusing over-the-counter cough medicine.the air force entered mr. kelley’s name federal databases bar convicted felons buying firearms — not. mistake allowed buy several guns next years.air force officials apologized last week admitting recent years unknown number violent criminals never registered system. “we’re looking databases,” air force secretary, heather wilson, said.after guilty plea, mr. kelley served eight months military prison. june 2013 let out, knocked lowest possible rank given bad conduct discharge barred nearly veterans benefits, including mental health treatment.he went back new braunfels. though parents owned sprawling ranch house patio pool, moved barn. married 2014, 19-year-old danielle shields.“that’s things started get weird,” said ms. edwards, reconnected mr. kelley around time called asking job reference. started chatting occasionally facebook, said, posts grew gradually disturbing finally stopped communicating year.at first, mr. kelley shared photos children small updates, said. started complaining new wife, family trying get take medication. said hated wife, feared would leave take children, ms. edwards said.law enforcement officials said rocky relationship may contributed shooting sunday.a friend mr. kelley’s mother-in-law, todd feltner, said friday marriage strained “devin abusing physically, verbally mentally.” added mother-in-law told mr. kelley threatened family, too: “he telling ‘that going get them.’”soon, mr. kelley’s facebook conversations turned dark. started sending ms. edwards photos weapons bought descriptions killing animals. first, brushed enthusiasm hunter texas hill country. then, said, became obsessed news mr. roof, 21-year-old killed nine people church south carolina 2015.“he excited it. went it, saying ‘isn’t cool? isn’t cool?’ watched videos?’” ms. edwards said. said told mr. kelley acting normal needed help.“he told would never nerve kill people, killed animals,” said.in 2016 sent photos new military-style rifle building, one said looked like rifle authorities said used church shooting.this spring, mr. kelley’s comments became disturbing unfriended — something number friends also said did.the breaking point came told buying dogs online using target practice. “i told normal, needed kind help could give him,” ms. edwards said. “before unfriended him, gave number. told him, ‘if ever thinking hurting someone else, call.’”he never called.now she, like many others path, says cannot help blame acting saw signs trouble.on sunday, washing dishes home another member old squadron texted her. “the shooter, it’s kelley,” text said.she dropped glass hands started crying.
days church shooting, texas town begins bury dead sutherland springs, tex. — drizzle-shrouded cemetery, small town south texas endured one horrific mass shootings united states history began saturday bury dead.mourners gathered edge sutherland springs funeral two victims last sunday’s massacre: richard rodriguez, 64, retired railroad foreman, therese rodriguez, 66, retired receptionist railroad maintenance company worked.the married couple among 26 parishioners, including children, killed gunman first baptist church. convulsing town hundred people, mass shooting latest several across united states.residents bracing many funerals come.“this trying day — well, trying week,” frank pomeroy, pastor first baptist church, told several dozen people gathered cemetery hill choked back tears.“but remember: god — no, god — prevailed,” said visibly shaken mr. pomeroy, whose 14-year-old daughter, annabelle, died shooting.several hundred people attended memorial service saturday grace bible church nearby town la vernia. people wept, erin weaver, church’s senior pastor, read psalm 23, proclaiming, “though walk valley shadow death, fear evil.”a display photographs showed rodriguezes throughout lives. richard, born fort collins, colo., displayed scruffy beard affection american flag t-shirts, well music carlos santana journey. therese, child moved postwar germany united states parents, remembered gregarious traveler, breast cancer survivor faithful parishioner church.friends therese said pastor appreciation day, preparing give deer killed grandson mr. pomeroy.“they left perfect way, together, mourn other,” regina rodriguez, 33, said service father stepmother. “whenever hard time, felt like drowning, always help me,” added ms. rodriguez, sobbing times.people gathered funeral chatted spanish english, reflecting friends relatives couple, like many others south texas, mingle hispanic anglo traditions. children ran around cemetery mourners placed flowers caskets.“they two great people always really loving,” said melanie picazo, 24, cousin richard drove three hours eagle pass saturday. “it’s overwhelming,” said richard therese killed many others. “you never think happen you.”the large extended family richard therese, including numerous grandchildren, sang “amazing grace,” 18th-century hymn written english clergyman john newton. light rain coated burial yard, grasped hands gazed caskets voiced lyrics:at service, mr. pomeroy said wanted remember richard therese joyful couple forged bond late life. exhibited sense humor, mr. pomeroy said, recalling recent occasion parked motorcycle inside church.“you’re always dumb things,” therese told pastor. “that’s like you.”
london meeting unlikely group: trump adviser came learn clinton ‘dirt’ washington — midday march 24, 2016, improbable group gathered london cafe discuss setting meeting donald j. trump, candidate, president vladimir v. putin russia.there george papadopoulos, 28-year-old chicago inflated résumé days earlier publicly named foreign policy adviser mr. trump’s campaign. joseph mifsud, maltese academic mid-50s faltering career boasted high-level contacts russian government.and, perhaps mysteriously, olga polonskaya, 30-year-old russian st. petersburg former manager wine distribution company. mr. mifsud introduced mr. papadopoulos mr. putin’s niece, according court papers. mr. putin niece.the interactions three players fourth man contacts inside russia’s foreign ministry become central part inquiry special prosecutor, robert s. mueller iii, kremlin’s efforts interfere presidential election. recently released court documents suggest f.b.i. suspected people showed interest mr. papadopoulos participants russian intelligence operation.the march 2016 meeting followed breakfast next month london hotel mr. mifsud revealed mr. papadopoulos russians “dirt” hillary clinton form “thousands emails.” months theft trove emails democratic national committee russian-sponsored hackers became public.mr. mueller’s investigators seeking determine — anyone — trump campaign mr. papadopoulos told stolen emails. although evidence mr. papadopoulos emailed information campaign, mr. papadopoulos regular contact spring top campaign officials, including stephen miller, senior adviser president trump, according interviews campaign documents reviewed new york times.the revelations mr. papadopoulos’s activities part series disclosures past two weeks communications trump campaign advisers russian officials self-described intermediaries russian government. taken together, show contacts extensive previously known, also senior campaign officials aware them.last week, carter page, another former foreign policy adviser campaign, acknowledged house intelligence committee also private conversation russian deputy prime minister trip moscow july 2016. mr. page, previously denied meeting russian officials trip, said informed least four campaign officials trip beforehand notified campaign afterward russian minister pledged “strong support mr. trump.”publicly, mr. trump former campaign officials tried distance mr. papadopoulos. although praised “excellent guy,” mr. trump posted twitter “few people knew young, low level volunteer named george, already proven liar.” sarah huckabee sanders, white house spokeswoman, said involvement campaign “extremely limited.”but records interviews show spring 2016, mr. papadopoulos welcomed thinly-staffed campaign “surrogate” could articulate candidate’s views. even helped edit major foreign policy speech mr. trump gave washington late april, records indicate.the day learned hacked emails, mr. papadopoulos emailed mr. miller, senior policy adviser campaign, saying mr. trump “open invitation” mr. putin visit russia. day after, wrote mr. miller “some interesting messages coming moscow trip time right.”those emails described court papers unsealed oct. 30 disclosing mr. papadopoulos pleaded guilty lying contacts f.b.i. documents identify mr. miller name, citing “senior policy adviser.” neither lawyer responded friday requests comment.during interviews mr. mueller’s investigators, former campaign officials working white house denied advance knowledge stolen emails, according official familiar discussions. mr. miller among recently interviewed.mr. mifsud’s interest mr. papadopoulos began mr. papadopoulos joined trump campaign, according documents released mr. mueller. mr. papadopoulos living london time, hoping land full-time job campaign, possibly future trump administration.stocky receding hairline, mr. mifsud boasted russian connections mr. papadopoulos others. interviews, numerous russia scholars london elsewhere said never heard him, career rocky years. served director two different european institutions grandiose names accreditation, left two jobs dogged suggestions financial impropriety.“i remember snake-oil salesman,” recalled manuel delia, former maltese government official first encountered late 1990s mr. mifsud administering scholarship program. later, mr. mifsud styled expert international relations, landing job 2012 director london academy diplomacy, for-profit continuing education program. early 2016, academy shut down.he exhibit special interest expertise russia 2014, academy beginning stumble financially. time 24-year-old russian intern, natalia kutepova-jamrom, turned office improbably impressive résumé.fluent russian, english, german chinese, ms. kutepova-jamrom worked russian government legislative aide would move russian state newspaper. mr. mifsud’s lawyer ms. kutepova-jamrom declined comment. mr. mifsud respond messages.ms. kutepova-jamrom introduced mr. mifsud senior russian officials, diplomats scholars. despite mr. mifsud’s lack qualifications, managed arrange invitation join prestigious valdai discussion club, elite gathering western russian academics meets year mr. putin.mr. mifsud’s inclusion group “very, strange,” said james sherr, former head russian studies program chatham house london member valdai nearly decade. “might suggest connections,” mr. sherr said.mr. mifsud suddenly became popular pundit state-run news outlets russia, praising country mr. putin. first valdai conference 2014, argued western sanctions punished russia annexation crimea year.“global security economy needs partners, better russian federation,” said.among mr. mifsud’s important new contacts ivan timofeev, graduate elite moscow state institute international relations program director valdai conference. mr. mifsud would eventually introduce mr. timofeev mr. papadopoulos email april 2016, two men communicated months possible meetings trump campaign russian government officials.during exchanges, mr. timofeev referred repeatedly contacts russia’s ministry foreign affairs, court records show.reached phone, mr. timofeev declined comment relationships mr. mifsud mr. papadopoulos. interview online news website gazeta.ru august, acknowledged corresponding mr. papadopoulos.“at point, started asking whether would possible set meeting trump putin high-ranking russian politicians,” mr. timofeev said time. “our conversations made clear george well acquainted russian foreign political landscape. obviously can’t go set meeting president, instance. things aren’t done way.”exactly mr. mifsud first met ms. polonskaya, russian woman attended london cafe meeting march 2016, unclear.in recent interview italian newspaper la repubblica, mr. mifsud said russian woman met mr. papadopoulos “a simple student, beautiful.” suggested mr. papadopoulos hoped romantic involvement, adding, “putin nothing it, lovely invention.”mr. mifsud reveal name interview — court records identify — times identified emails, interviews records.ms. polonskaya respond emails times week. politico identified thursday maiden name, vinogradova, brother, sergei vinogradov, spoke times behalf.he said london discussing possible internship mr. mifsud, friend hers, morning meeting mr. papadopoulos. insisted connections russian government never portrayed mr. putin’s niece, despite court records unsealed mr. mueller.he said exchanged pleasantries mr. papadopoulos, understood half discussion mr. mifsud mr. papadopoulos. shared text message explained reason: “because english bad,” read.“it’s totally ridiculous,” mr. vinogradov said. “she’s interested politics. barely tell difference lenin stalin.”
alabama women, disgust, fatigue sense moore could win anyway vestavia hills, ala. — sallie gunter, 61, freelance court reporter, breakfast friend lisa hicks, 44, legal assistant, panera bread subject roy s. moore came up. felt like revisiting recurring bad dream.“how processing it?” ms. gunter said. “i lot work gender discrimination sexual discrimination need carefully word this. would probably say there’s smoke, there’s usually fire.”both women considered independents voted democrats republicans, although ms. hicks said leaned republican. ms. gunter said gone high school mr. moore’s democratic opponent, doug jones, would voting him.but like many urban suburban alabama, two women viewed allegations reported washington post mr. moore made sexual overtures teenagers decades ago much discrete scandal. rather, felt like latest episode tawdry political sideshow seemingly endless chapters.“we’ve spent millions alabama roy moore’s antics,” ms. gunter said. “millions could spent kids schools. i’m fed up. needs find something people adore him.’’alabama virginia, political leanings suburban women political weight tuesday virginia. census statistics show alabama’s voting age population is, balance, whiter, poorer less educated nation’s. like many republican candidates statewide elections south, mr. moore draws much political strength rural areas, still enormous clout. still, 47 percent state’s active registered voters concentrated seven populous counties.and upper-middle-class suburb birmingham, place establishment republicans, moderate democrats true swing voters, women interviewed mr. moore, part, said allegations came less shocking bolt blue one reason like man never much cared first place.“he’s embarrassing,” ms. gunter said.“he’s embarrassing,” ms. hicks repeated.still, race holds hard choices many. rhonda beacham, 64, retired kindergarten teacher, described firm christian believes place ten commandments judicial sphere. yet voted luther strange, mr. moore’s opponent republican primary. considered mr. moore — man famously refused take statue commandments state supreme court building — “showman” “barnum & bailey 21st century.”“he knows get votes alabama shows christian religious person,” said.she skeptical report post. “why haven’t heard before?” said. “because clown’s around long time.”ms. beacham anti-abortion, would prefer see republicans continue maintain control senate. fan affordable care act, blames increase monthly health insurance payment.she feel much choice coming election. said reminded presidential contest, wrote condoleezza rice. “i wanted woman,” said. “but didn’t want hillary.”she held possibility voting mr. jones, wasn’t roy moore. mr. moore, said, would probably win, “because way exploits christianity” and, added half-joking, allegations coming “yankee paper.”“i mean, who’s going believe that?” said, chortling.also uncertain susie frazier, 56, finishing meal fast-food restaurant husband, ed, friday morning. voted mr. moore republican primary, said, great love him: mr. frazier said largely voted mr. strange received many annoying robocalls.ms. frazier said liked mr. moore well enough. called conservative, extremist. husband voted president trump, though mr. frazier said disappointed thus far. seemed, said, mr. trump’s swamp-draining skills potent promised.ms. frazier seemed unsure think allegations, sure would vote december. “i’m trying see happens this,” said, “and there’s someone better.”gwen williams, 63, head business development technology company, breakfast two female friends friday morning declined identified. friends want talk mr. moore — one said many family members passionate supporters mr. moore, speaking would cause much grief.“i’m going talk you,” woman said. “my relatives would go nuts.”ms. williams described conservative christian bush republican voted mr. trump great zeal, rather, said, “because ‘none above’ ballot.”she summed response allegations words “nausea” “disgust,” particularly allegations engaged sexual touching 14-year-old 30s.“even alabama that’s illegal,” ms. williams said. “it’s called statutory rape.”then again, ms. williams, lives rural chilton county south birmingham, never roy moore fan. said would “absolutely” voting mr. jones, sure neighbors. “i’ve lived life, don’t lot confidence fellow voters making shift,” said. point, idea whether mr. moore could pull win. “it depends story goes,” said. “this bible belt, 14-year-old 14-year-old 14-year-old.”not everyone overly concerned. susan remick, 48, principal elementary school, said: “this happened many years ago, correct? honestly think we’re paying much attention it.” ms. remick, republican, said many pressing problems. fact allegations old bothered her. “i’m little disappointed society right now,” said. “it ultimately hurts somebody’s reputation. true time, addressed time.”still, whatever views allegations, many seemed think mr. moore excellent chance becoming alabama’s next senator.susie barganier, 55, worker redbox, movie rental company, waiting color treatment busy hair salon. “i’m sure make it,” said allegations. seemed, said, many women coming many allegations days. “but fact 14 32, problem with. don’t like roy moore anyway.”she also thought allegations would hurt mr. moore’s chances december. “probably not,” said. “not alabama.”
silence lifts state houses harassment scandals bring swift penalties beneath wave sexual misconduct allegations recent weeks male lawmakers candidates lies common theme: offenses going decades, either unacknowledged dealt quietly.now, veils silence legislative chambers lifting public disavowals calls resignations pour accused, even fellow party members.roiling political world last week report washington post four women accused roy s. moore, republican nominee united states senate seat alabama, sexual romantic advances 30s teenagers, one young 14.while many republican officials alabama come mr. moore’s defense, chorus others — including president, vice president senator mitch mcconnell, majority leader — immediately called candidate step aside allegations true. senate campaign arm party cut fund-raising agreement him, two republican senators rescinded endorsements.but debate mr. moore, called allegations “completely false,” plays national scale, blitz scandals also hit statehouses california florida, accusations might ignored past drawing aggressive responses. accused found colleagues back public.“there’s sense trying defend guys way,” said debbie walsh, director center women american politics rutgers university. “i don’t know men really get least know they’d better get it.”women continue come forward, writing public letters abuses ranging lewd comments groping, joining others wide range industries powerful figures toppled, seemingly week, wake harvey weinstein scandal. result, legislators resigned removed posts, sexual harassment policies revised, women’s caucuses formed, broad investigations kicked gear.so far, many accused held seats — stature. accusers raised questions whether witnessing beginning systemic change short-lived political band-aid.“now they’re — why?” asked denise rotheimer, political activist republican candidate illinois house representatives. complained last year state senator ira silverstein, chairman democratic majority caucus, sent midnight messages asked numerous personal questions tried work bill. “because media grabbed onto this? it’s public? there’s nothing different complaint november last year testimony year.”ms. rotheimer testified publicly late last month state legislative hearing fast-moving measure addressing sexual harassment; within day mr. silverstein resigned leadership position, though disputed charges, according chicago tribune. (messages left office returned.) lawmakers moved quickly appoint interim legislative inspector general lead office charged receiving investigating complaints, position sat vacant three years.the upheaval illinois one many recent days. many allegations, speed repercussions picked up.this month, speaker kentucky house representatives, jeff hoover, reported secretly settled staff member claims sexual harassment. republican governor, matt bevin, eight mr. hoover’s fellow republicans house demanded resignation. last week, mr. hoover stepped speaker, though remained house seat. three republican lawmakers — also named oct. 25 settlement, courier-journal louisville, ky., reported — removed committee leadership posts pending investigation.the president florida senate ordered independent investigation took powerful chairmanship post state senator jack latvala, fellow republican, last week accused inappropriately touching making derogatory comments several women work state capitol.on wednesday, minnpost, online news site, reported several women described minnesota state senator dan schoen, democrat, making unwanted advances even grabbing them, prompting immediate calls resignation fellow lawmakers, including senate minority leader gov. mark dayton, democrats. (mr. schoen, statement, said allegations “either completely false taken far context.”)and denver post reported friday representative steve lebsock, democrat colorado house, accused sexual harassment colleague fellow party member faith winter. house speaker crisanta duran, also democrat, quickly urged mr. lebsock step down, later apologized “offending” ms. winter.both political parties reckon sexual misconduct allegations urgent threat power.“this real issue want right thing,” said kent redfield, professor emeritus political science university illinois springfield. illinois, democrats controlled chambers state legislature since 2003. “but also potentially damning political issue democrats charge.”that dynamic play kentucky, republicans complete control legislature last year first time nearly century. democrats ousted two years removed sexual harassment scandal led resignation democratic state representative, john arnold.so republican house majority leader, jonathan shell, insisted caucus’s full support mr. hoover days news broke sexual harassment settlement, partisan backstop unlikely hold.“i’m going condone justify inappropriate behavior membership staff,” said representative robert benvenuti, republican member panel investigating mr. arnold 2014.this month, among eight lawmakers publicly demanding resignation mr. hoover others. mr. hoover admitted settlement news conference last week, though said behavior — consisting “inappropriate text messages”— consensual stepping speaker mainly keep legislature’s focus hotly debated pension crisis.mr. benvenuti colleagues still maintain acceptable resolution resignation mr. hoover legislators involved.“there enough distrust thoughts hypocrisy people government,” mr. benvenuti said. “we’ve got best gaining trust back.”
full transcript trump’s remarks russia president trump spoke reporters aboard air force one way hanoi, vietnam, attended state dinner saturday evening. talking reporters, asked private meeting russian president vladimir v. putin sideline asia-pacific economic cooperation summit meeting danang, vietnam. mr. trump said mr. putin sincere denials russian interference 2016 presidential election, questions moscow’s meddling politically motivated “hit job.”following transcript comments, prepared white house. lightly edited clarity.read coverage »___________reporter: discussions vladimir putin? discuss syria? apparently they’ve issued joint statement —trump: issued joint statement. we’re going — seen statement yet?sarah huckabee sanders, white house press secretary: it’s going — it’s way.trump: think it’ll go out. you’ll see little while.sanders: may out, guys — we’re air.trump: it’s going save tremendous numbers lives. quickly. agreed quickly.as know, saw last night picture, first time. today round table numerous countries. list countries, obviously. right? list.and spoke intermittently round table. seem good feeling good relationship considering don’t know well. think it’s good relationship.we two three short conversations meeting, fact we’re meeting. conversations, talked syria de-conflicting, etc. know, areas troops facing — troops — mean, troops facing troops there’s nothing between.and issued statement — joint statement. approved, think people going extremely happy also impressed it.reporter: russia’s attempts meddle u.s. elections come conversation?trump: said didn’t meddle. said didn’t meddle. asked again. ask many times. asked again, said absolutely meddle election. they’re saying did. said —reporter: believe him?trump: well, look, can’t stand argue him. i’d rather get syria, honest you. i’d rather — know, work ukraine standing arguing whether — whole thing set democrats.i mean, ought look podesta. ought look things they’ve done phony dossier. big events. big events.but putin said said did. and, know, say, it, wouldn’t gotten caught, right? interesting statement. — know, good feeling toward getting things done.if relationship russia, would good thing. fact, would great thing, bad thing. could really help us north korea. big problem north korea. china helping us. lack relationship russia artificial thing that’s happening democratic-inspired thing, could really helped lot, tremendously, russia north korea.and, know, you’re talking millions millions lives. isn’t baby stuff. real deal. russia helped us, addition china, problem would go away lot faster.reporter: bring issue election meddling? ask question?trump: — every time sees me, says, “i didn’t that.” believe — really believe tells that, means it. says, “i didn’t that.” think he’s insulted it, want know truth.don’t forget, said never that, didn’t that. think he’s insulted it, good thing country. again, relationship russia, north korea — single biggest problem right — north korea, would helped lot. think i’m well respect china. they’ve cut financing; they’ve cut bank lines; they’ve cut lots oil lots things, lots trade. it’s big impact. russia, hand, may making difference. are, that’s good thing.so relationship russia would great thing — good thing — would great thing, especially relates north korea.and i’ll say this, hillary stupid reset button spelled word wrong, doesn’t takes kind relationship could call could something would pull back north korea, they’d pull back syria, maybe pull back ukraine. mean, could solve ukraine problem —but really artificial barrier that’s put front us solving problems russia, says strongly. really seems insulted it, says didn’t it. —reporter: (inaudible) believe —trump: excuse me?reporter: even (inaudible) one-on-one, believe him?trump: think very, strong fact didn’t it. look, look what’s going podesta, look what’s going server d.n.c. didn’t f.b.i. take it, leave it, third party look server fbi — look stuff, say, what’s going here?and hear it’s 17 agencies. well, it’s three. one brennan one whatever. mean, give break. they’re political hacks.so look — mean, brennan, clapper, comey. comey proven liar he’s proven leaker.so look that, president putin strongly, vehemently says nothing that. now, you’re going get argument. you’re going start talking syria ukraine.
marine drill instructor gets 10 years tormenting recruits raleigh, n.c. — marine corps drill instructor sentenced friday 10 years prison choking, punching otherwise tormenting recruits, especially three muslims — one ultimately killed leaping stairwell.a military jury handed punishment gunnery sgt. joseph felix one day convicting abusing dozen trainees marine boot camp parris island, s.c.among things, taunted muslims “terrorists” “isis” ordered two climb industrial clothes dryer, spinning one around scorching machine renounced faith, jury decided.sergeant felix, 34, veteran iraq war, also ordered forfeit pay, demoted private given dishonorable discharge.sergeant felix central figure found group abusive drill instructors parris island. march 2016 suicide base, hazing investigation led charges him, five drill instructors training battalion’s commanding officer. eleven others faced lesser discipline.abusive drill instructors long stock characters books movies like “full metal jacket.” 1987 film set vietnam war, felix trial shows since marines drawn clearer lines instructors cannot do, said michael hanzel, former navy lawyer attended proceedings camp lejeune, n.c.“this generation now, there’s things think we’re much focused on. particular, trial, it’s calling people names based religion targeting people based religion,” said mr. hanzel, lawyer private practice specializing military law. “i don’t think anyone would say acceptable ever, probably prosecuted past way would now.”the charges sergeant felix included commanding recruits choke one another; ordering drink chocolate milk training vomited; punching recruits face kicking ground.“he wasn’t making marines. breaking marines,” lt. col. john norman, prosecutor, told jury wednesday. called sergeant felix bully heaped special abuse three muslim recruits faith.one them, raheel siddiqui, 20, pakistani-american taylor, mich., hurled death jury decided mistreatment sergeant felix included slapping mr. siddiqui calling terrorist. mr. siddiqui’s family sued marine corps last month $100 million.the government charge sergeant felix crime directly related mr. siddiqui’s death. judge, lt. col. michael libretto, allow testimony whether sergeant felix’s actions responsible recruit’s suicide.sergeant felix also convicted ordering lance cpl. ameer bourmeche dryer, turned felix demanded, “are still muslim?” lance corporal bourmeche testified twice affirmed faith sergeant felix another drill instructor twice sent bruising, scorching tumble inside machine.after third spin, lance corporal bourmeche said, feared life renounced religion. drill instructors let out, said.sergeant felix found guilty well ordering lance corporal bourmeche simulate chopping head fellow marine reciting “god great” arabic.the jury decided sergeant felix also ordered rekan hawez, native iraqi kurdistan, climb dryer. machine never turned on.sergeant felix convicted, too, rousing nearly two dozen recruits sleep, ordering lie floor, walking along two drill instructors.in closing statement wednesday, navy lt. cmdr. daniel bridges, defense lawyer, said government unfairly fashioned contradictory witness accounts case brawny drill instructor called recruits “terrorist.”
russia scandal befalls two brothers: john tony podesta washington — one rail-thin liberal idealist spent career government, campaigns think tanks. overweight pragmatist made fortune lobbying manner liberal boogeymen.and now, twist shakespearean undertones, two influential washington brothers found opposite sides scandals russian interference 2016 election.john d. podesta, perhaps anyone except hillary clinton, victim russian cyberassault allies presidential campaign, chairman. emails stolen personal gmail account dribbled wikileaks last fall, revealing embarrassing rifts roiling campaign washington’s democratic establishment. pushed hard aggressive investigation russia’s role election.mr. podesta’s older brother, tony podesta, ensnared investigation robert s. mueller iii, special counsel, russia’s meddling race whether involved associates president trump. efforts firm, podesta group, win support agenda viktor f. yanukovych, russia-aligned former president ukraine, cited indictment handed last month two former campaign aides mr. trump, paul manafort rick gates, arranged ukrainian lobbying work.neither tony podesta anyone podesta group publicly charged case. mr. mueller subpoenaed firm employees documents testimony related work interviewed roughly half dozen people tony podesta’s involvement. podesta group withered scrutiny, employees informed tearful meeting thursday may stop receiving paychecks next week, according people attendance.for democrats, little question deserves sympathy.“sure, clinton campaign made mistakes, that’s like representing dictatorship,” said james carville, known john podesta years democratic political circles. mr. carville said less acquainted tony podesta, added “by reputation, can’t put book. john one straightest guys know. everybody says, ‘can believe guys brothers?’”mr. trump, part, went brothers last month, lumping together emblematic “the swamp” washington special interests campaigned.in fact, podesta brothers, raised modest two-flat chicago’s northwest side greek-american mother italian-american father, represent different strains washington establishment attack left right.john podesta, 68, served top white house aide last two democratic presidents, bill clinton barack obama, believed line white house chief staff mrs. clinton presidency. campaign white house stints, john podesta helped create run leading institutions american left, including center american progress think tank, provided policy political advice generations democratic politicians operatives.tony podesta, 74, built one highest-grossing lobbying firms washington, signing clients across industries ideologies — including defense contractors like lockheed martin, banks like wells fargo, drug makers like mylan foreign regimes like government former egyptian dictator hosni mubarak. tony podesta known fund-raising — 2016, donated raised nearly $900,000 mrs. clinton’s campaign democratic party — well lavish lifestyle.had mrs. clinton prevailed, official washington expected, likely would cemented legacies brothers — john podesta key confidant presidents one important democratic strategists past century, tony podesta go-to lobbyist democratic administrations. instead, podestas drawn vortex investigations conspiracy theories enveloped washington trump era.tony podesta stepped firm hours obliquely referenced indictments mr. manafort mr. gates, though talks leaving months. unclear happen investment podesta group, hemorrhaging clients employees, mounting scrutiny businesses looking lobbyists connections trump administration, according interviews lobbying filings. firm partners starting new firm next month called cogent strategies, tony podesta stake.last week’s indictment name podesta group another firm worked ukraine account, mercury public affairs. instead, indictment referred “two washington, d.c., firms” recruited mr. manafort mr. gates.while firms disclosed work congress less-rigorous domestic lobbying rules, initially register foreign agents registration act. indictment alleges done intentionally — routing money brussels-based nonprofit — “to minimize public disclosure lobbying campaign” “was ultimate direction” mr. yanukovych, party government.tony podesta lawyers working navigate issues raised mueller investigation accompanying attacks right. already demanded retraction conservative news media claims podestas worked mr. manafort advance russian interests.john podesta, part, dedicated time since election trying expose connections mr. trump, associates russia.after postelection publication dossier former british spy connections — included salacious claims — john podesta met glenn simpson, co-founder firm commissioned opposition research, compare notes russia’s involvement, according associate mr. podesta.during general election season, firm’s research funded clinton campaign democratic national committee, though john podesta told congressional investigators knowledge payments. associate said meeting came mr. simpson considering whether, how, firm could continue russia-related trump research. spokeswoman mr. simpson’s firm, fusion gps, declined comment.john podesta helped raise millions dollars major donors personal financial relationships — including san francisco mortgage billionaire herbert sandler — nonprofits fighting trump administration. funding mr. sandler, helped begin group called democracy forward suing trump team number fronts, including least one lawsuit intended partly reveal whether mr. trump’s aides tried influence russia investigation.john podesta “could gone bunker vanished, instead dedicated fighting this,” said faiz shakir, worked center american progress serves board democracy forward. “he driven exacting measure justice unscrupulous form politics utilized side,” said mr. shakir, considers mr. podesta mentor.both brothers declined interview requests representatives. john podesta provided written response question whether saw tragic — least ironic — russia investigation advocating ensnared brother.“the tragedy donald trump president got russians’ help,” said. “that’s tragedy american people.”for john tony podesta, connections democratic politics began early age. 1970, worked together rev. joseph d. duffey’s antiwar senate campaign connecticut, tony podesta served top official, younger brother — well bill hillary clinton — volunteers.over next 23 years, brothers’ paths intertwined. wove campaigns car-pooled together georgetown university’s law school, earned degrees 1976. tony podesta joined united states attorney’s office washington, john podesta went work justice department.after years, brothers left jobs — john podesta joining democratic staff senate judiciary committee, tony podesta becoming founding president liberal advocacy group people american way.in 1987, brothers teamed create lobbying public relations firm called podesta associates, seen liberal bearing, representing mix public interest groups media companies associations. mr. clinton presidency 1992 — campaign podestas worked — brothers’ paths diverged all. john podesta took job white house divested stake firm, tony podesta pointed less ideological direction.by president obama’s second year office, domestic lobbying revenues podesta group risen $29 million, buoyed part perception access new administration.the brothers remained close, even lifestyles took different paths.tony podesta moved 7,000-square-foot house washington’s exclusive kalorama neighborhood, bought $3.9 million addition homes australia venice. three years renovations, turned fund-raising hot spot modern art collection wine cellar thousands bottles. divorce second wife, 26 years junior, widely chronicled washington.john podesta, remains married mother three children, lives relatively modest house near american university northwest washington, clan makes habit getting together home cooked pasta.in end, said lanny davis, known podestas since duffey campaign, brothers much common.“tony podesta may clients way right politics,” said, “but neither john tony podesta, matter clients are, withdrawn one inch liberal democrats progressive values.”
emergency manager resigns puerto rico; army ends mission san juan — head puerto rico’s emergency management agency resigned friday, day army general charge military’s response hurricane announced mission island ended.the moves came puerto rico tries shift away emergency phase hurricane response, day widespread power failure underscored enormous challenges remain. 2,000 people still shelters, power grid operating 41 percent capacity, 52 days storm.lt. gen. jeffrey buchanan arrived puerto rico week hurricane maria pummeled island, midst fierce criticism federal response. quickly acknowledged enough federal troops island vowed help puerto rico.on friday, said federal government distributed 51 million gallons water 20 million meals tended 5,000 sick residents.he said military’s missions, primarily clearing roads, attending medical emergencies helping restore communications, complete. agencies, like national guard federal emergency management agency, would continue work. military officials would remain island wind operations.“fema going here, much long term rebuilding,” general buchanan said. “we military generally don’t that.”shortly afterward, government announced abner gómez, commissioner puerto rico emergency management agency, resigned.it unclear whether mr. gómez’s resignation indication government recognized failure response hurricane maria, simply lost influence agency. mr. gómez’s profile diminished year governor created cabinet position him. visible figure since storm rarely appeared news conferences.in resignation letter, mr. gómez acknowledged recovery largely assigned someone else, stepping let new supervisor, secretary public safety, name team.mr. gómez respond requests comment.on thursday, gov. ricardo a. rosselló asked cabinet sign undated letters resignation. mr. rosselló vowed eliminate 100 agencies many members cabinet going find without jobs, said.“we emergency phase practically us sustaining lives,” said. “we entering recovery phase,” that, said, needs nimble government.oscar ramiro, head chef popular bakery san juan, said mr. gómez official shown unable address destruction hurricane maria. others also resign replaced, starting top, said mr. ramiro, still power house rio piedras, san juan neighborhood.“he’s pretty incompetent,” said mr. gómez. “the governor entrusted responsibility, means ultimately, problem governor.”
state department offer buyouts effort cut staff washington — state department soon offer $25,000 buyout diplomats staff members quit take early retirements april, officials confirmed friday.the decision part secretary state rex w. tillerson’s continuing effort cut ranks diplomats civil service officers despite bipartisan resistance congress. mr. tillerson’s goal reduce department nearly 25,000 full-time american employees 8 percent, amounts 1,982 people.to reach number, already frozen hiring, reduced promotions, asked senior employees perform clerical duties normally relegated lower-level staff members, refused fill many ambassadorships senior leadership jobs, fired top diplomats coveted posts offering low-level assignments place. efforts crippled morale worldwide.still, state department accountants told mr. tillerson 1,341 people expected retire quit end september 2018, date mr. tillerson promised complete first round cuts.indeed, rumors buyout reduced number departures expected year. $25,000 given first 641 employees agree leave april, representative state department confirmed friday.for top diplomats, $25,000 buyout — taxes would probably reduce $16,000 — enough change career plans, many already left. number carrying department’s top two ranks — equivalent four- three-star generals — dropped almost half, 39 21. nearly 20 percent two-star-equivalent ranks signaled intention leave unprecedented exodus, according accounting provided american foreign service association.“where mandate pull foreign service team field forfeit game adversaries?” barbara stephenson, union’s president, asked letter membership week.mr. tillerson middle departmentwide reorganization, effort called important priority. staff reductions nothing overhaul, according briefed plans.because buyouts voluntary, many take money leave likely skills jobs mr. tillerson hoping maintain increase reorganized department.instead, cutbacks meant make payment 31 percent budget cut president trump proposed department year. congress rejected suggestion largely maintained department’s budget affected mr. tillerson’s plans, fact likely infuriate many capitol hill.“these actions going harm security ability lead global stage,” said representative eliot l. engel new york, senior democrat house foreign affairs committee.in september, senate appropriations committee unanimously approved bill maintain department’s funding prior levels, senator lindsey graham, republican south carolina, issued statement, saying, “now time retreat, time double diplomacy development.”but mr. trump repeatedly indicated wants fewer diplomats.asked many vacancies state department, mr. trump said interview laura ingraham fox news: “you know, don’t forget, i’m businessperson tell people, ‘when don’t need fill slots, don’t fill them.’ people i’m happy there.”pressed critical positions like assistant secretary state, mr. trump responded statement since reverberated around state department. “the one matters me,” said. “i’m one matters because, comes it, that’s policy going be.”similarly, president vladimir v. putin russia forced united states july reduce diplomatic personnel 755, mr. trump said grateful.“i want thank we’re trying cut payroll, far i’m concerned, i’m thankful let go large number people, smaller payroll,” mr. trump told reporters golf club bedminster, n.j.mr. tillerson sharply pared number briefings receives senior diplomats well number people normally travel secretary state. result, mr. tillerson repeated gaffes foreign capitals. also wildly unpopular state department, president rumored eager replace him.some employees eligible buyouts, including many members security, information technology, medical building staffs, areas department trying hire people offering bonuses stay.
clampdown university michigan fraternities reports sexual misconduct alcohol abuse parties pledging activities university michigan’s fraternities suspended, university said friday, latest wave efforts across country tamp fraternity excesses leading sexual misconduct, alcohol drug abuse deaths.the student-run interfraternity council, oversees 27 fraternity chapters flagship state university, decreed social events, like mixers parties, well pledging activities, would stopped indefinitely.the student newspaper, michigan daily, first reported suspension, said meeting council thursday, council leaders said concerned recent events including: 30 hospital transports weekend michigan-michigan state football game; “champagne shackles” event, dates party handcuffed finished bottle champagne; allegations drugging fraternity members, hazing pledges put near-death situations, sexual misconduct cases involving fraternity brothers.the action taken concern “the health safety members,” alec mayhan, executive vice president interfraternity council, said statement provided university. “we believe social events privilege, we, community, earned privilege time.”the suspension michigan came three days florida state university indefinitely suspended activities fraternities sororities death pledge, possibly due alcohol abuse, arrest fraternity member drug charges.penn state university halted fraternity sorority parties alcohol part last school year death 19-year-old student february. louisiana state university stopped greek life activities week september death fraternity pledge.the decision michigan, coming student leaders school itself, seemed effort show fraternities sensitive criticism become primary enablers party culture leads alcohol abuse sexual assault, show could take steps reform short universities shut down.michigan’s president, mark schlissel, sharply critical fraternity culture, saying 2015 though aspire get rid fraternities, shape up, “may naturally wither people may want stop joining them.”but university spokesman, rick fitzgerald, said administration pressured student group taking action.the move already felt friday afternoon. instead scenes fraternity brothers drinking playing games lawns porches, visible activity found yard outside theta delta chi, students selling doughnuts apple cider raise money breast cancer research fund.the suspension major topic conversation food court basement student union, three different groups young men overheard complaining cancellation parties weekend, though declined speak reporter.henry flynn, 19-year-old sophomore, said rushed fraternities last winter deciding pledging roommate taken hospital alcohol poisoning greek event. mr. flynn recalled one activity potential pledges moved room room participating different drinking games, another tested answered women’s invasive questions sexual histories.while fraternities often speak publicly charitable work, mr. flynn heard little rush. “the focus fit community based much party,” said. “that vibe got.”another sophomore, tiffany liu, recalled friend hit fraternity pledge said part hazing required intercourse woman. fraternities “the main source propagating hookup culture,” ms. liu said. “that’s parties about.”mr. fitzgerald, spokesman university, 29,000 undergraduates, said school authorities local police looking misconduct complaints.mr. fitzgerald said sororities michigan normally host parties houses, would affected suspension. decree affects fraternities fall purview interfraternity council, leaving four predominantly african-american fraternities part national pan-hellenic council free continue hosting social events.still, kendall smith, president one four fraternities, kappa alpha psi, said controversy bad them, too.“obviously, women sexually assaulted, people overdosing drugs, hospitalizations, that’s bad look university general it’s good representative stand for,” said mr. smith, senior.he expected black fraternities would microscope now, since party throw draw students. biggest football game year, ohio state, coming two weeks, noted.mr. fitzgerald said expected suspension continue least fall semester, fraternity council leaders met individual groups see “where stand far able meet expectations.”supporters fraternities sororities frequently note role providing social, academic, graduation, professional support members. mr. fitzgerald said administration planning ban fraternities altogether. “the greek life community long history lot good campus,” said. “about 20 percent student body involved greek life, it’s important part student experience here.”indeed, every football game, fraternities always popular places go, said zane harding, 19.“they’re packed every time,” said. still, agreed behavior gotten hand. “there lot things wrong this,” said.
keith schiller, trump’s ex-bodyguard, says turned offer women moscow washington — president trump’s longtime bodyguard told congressional investigators week someone offered send five women mr. trump’s hotel room 2013 trip moscow annual miss universe pageant.but bodyguard, keith schiller, said quickly rejected offer, testified aware mr. trump participating compromising activity trip, according two people familiar testimony.mr. schiller spoke closed-door session members house intelligence committee nearly three hours tuesday. panel one several capitol hill investigating russia’s efforts interfere 2016 election.the 2013 trip particular interest investigators provided backdrop one salacious allegations dossier opposition research compiled election claiming broad conspiracy trump campaign russian government aid mr. trump’s candidacy. one memo included file contained unsubstantiated account mr. trump engaging prostitutes moscow hotel room trip.mr. schiller, traveled frequently mr. trump, told investigators knew activity trip.the offer women came morning business meeting ritz-carlton moscow discuss pageant, produced company owned mr. trump. mr. schiller told investigators 15 people present meeting, including emin agalarov, russian pop star, father, aras agalarov, business tycoon linked kremlin.as mr. schiller sat back room, man foreign accent unknown approached bodyguard offer, said. mr. schiller testified treat seriously quickly said thanks, according one people familiar testimony, requested anonymity discuss answers given behind closed doors.mr. schiller said relayed story mr. trump returning hotel room later night. men shared laugh, said.mr. schiller told investigators stood guard outside mr. trump’s door retired night, eventually leaving go sleep himself, person said.details mr. schiller’s testimony earlier reported nbc news.stuart a. sears, lawyer representing mr. schiller, declined comment.scott balber, lawyer emin aras agalarov, said men aware offer made mr. schiller.“it case clients certainly involved certainly aware happened,” mr. balber said.a former new york police department officer, mr. schiller worked mr. trump since early 2000s, hired head security trump tower manhattan. accompanied mr. trump business trips later, crisscrossed country presidential race. mr. trump presidency, mr. schiller followed white house, serving september director oval office operations.though spent considerable time asking moscow trip, committee members also queried mr. schiller widely work mr. trump, asking details like worked trump tower, communicated mr. trump whether ever asked mr. trump advice, according republican official involved investigation.
insider’s guide halal takeout richly seasoned lamb curry, chana masala saag paneer fill chafing dishes. cases display confections like gulab jamun rasgulla, sweet milk cheese dumplings. overhead television broadcasts images bollywood stars.these features define pakistani bangladeshi restaurants new york city that, first glance, places appear almost indistinguishable.but make mistake: everyone favorite.for goat pulao, amanet khan, taxi driver 25 years, goes lahori chilli, stretch coney island avenue brooklyn known little pakistan. dish also favorite chandni, floor ar-rahman mosque manhattan. go blocks east haandi curry hill lamb nihari, stew slow-cooked shanks bone marrow.jackson heights, queens, drivers say, get beef bihari kebab, either dera kababish, meat sits charcoal grill spices boiling underneath.by quirk demographics, taxi drivers south asian restaurants. according new york city officials, 62,000 people five boroughs identify bangladeshi, 51,000 pakistani. 148,168 drivers licensed city’s taxi limousine commission 2015, 19,354 reported came bangladesh; 12,536 pakistan.most takeout places halal, means food prepared according islamic guidelines, pakistan bangladesh muslim-majority countries. open 24/7 accommodate drivers different schedules.at hour, south-asian americans gathered, eating, drinking chai, talking family, work politics, names uber, trump sharif popping conversations urdu, bengali english. all, recipes survived immigration america bloody partition pakistan india 70 years ago, politics way creeping conversation.but really, it’s food.haandi, manhattan, midnightit summer tuesday evening haandi, 20-somethings drifted midnight snack pakora. model karachi, eating chicken biryani, complained dating a.b.c.d.s — american-born confused desis. drivers, cabs cars lining lexington avenue outside, rotated break.mr. khan ate lamb karahi watched geo news tv overhead. disgust, regarded image nawaz sharif, pakistani’s former tycoon prime minister, ousted july.mr. sharif investigation so-called panama papers leaked last year, revealing three children bought luxury apartments london using offshore shell companies. forkfuls lamb, mr. khan said, “they take money country, take country, live another country, people poor, poor, poor, poor.”seven days week, mr. khan drives cab, 5 p.m. around 2 a.m. makes $4,000 $4,500 month depending season, really like $1,400 $1,900 he’s subtracted payments medallion lease money sent ex-wife three children lahore. arrangement almost 15 years: there, here. (though, happily, reported new marriage here.)dispatching 64,000 cars every day, uber ride-hailing apps squeezed taxi business (more 17,000 yellow green cabs road today). mr. khan, old-school yellow-cab driver, said keep competition intimately knows streets, compared drivers use ride hailing apps, often depend heavily gps.“if i’m going downtown, uptown, cross uptown, east west,” said, “i take first avenue uptown, cross 93rd street, there’s less traffic, light open, one one one one.”lahori chilli, brooklyn, 3 p.m.the week before, bright friday afternoon, double-parked black cars clogged coney island avenue prayer makki masjid. services, men streamed mosque. many younger ones linger, filing straight uber-stamped black cars — children pick up, undergrad i.t. classes get to, likely customers park slope.the older ones, traditional shalwar kameez kufi caps, took time walked toward restaurants lining avenue late lunch.inside lahori chilli sat shakeel baig, 40, driver uber juno lives jamaica, queens, supports wife five children lahore. eating chickpeas yogurt, complained three years, uber cut fares twice — 20 percent 2014, 15 percent 2016.“it completely affects everything,” said. “before would put 60 hours, know. happy. put 80 hours.”dera kababish, queens, 8 p.m.the three-quarters tables dera full recent rainy friday night, families coaxing children eat beef nihari, another forkful chicken biryani.faisal muhammad, 32, auditor lives manhattan, nasra jahir, indian flight attendant, first date. met shaadi.com, indian matchmaking website profiles often perused singles parents alike.asked caught eye ms. jahir, mr. muhammad said: “i thought beautiful. is.”mohammad saif ullah, 50, also owns another dera curry hill (lexington avenue 27th 28th streets), bought one 2004. arrived new york seeking political asylum pakistan 1991, conservative muslim party power. sapphire ring rose-gold watch remnants profession early years new york — jeweler. didn’t cook then, now, didn’t make doubt ability run restaurants. “i know taste,” said.across street, mostly men entered left tiny takeout spot kababish. rushing food home families, others ate kebabs, like finely minced gola beef, corner.a months before, fatima kamil, 23-year-old graduate penn state, inherited kababish father, muhammad tahir, remains consigliere, teaching ins outs family business. “i always wanted businesswoman,” said ms. kamil. getting shot.there is, however, one role mr. tahir relinquished: guardian secret recipe garam masala. spice mix kept large tin canister, mr. tahir doles contents employees.“if give chefs,” said garam masala, “they’ll start compete here.”the recipe comes grandfather, owned restaurant hotel mumbai. family lived new delhi, moved lahore britain granted independence india pakistan 1947.that history, though, far mind kamran nadir, 29, picked order night.“i’m taking kebab, going home, getting dressed coming back city,” said. “i parties attend.”
road rage, shot. police officer, called self-defense course two days early july last year, three black men, 40, killed police officers different parts country — alton sterling baton rouge, la.; philando castile, outside st. paul, delrawn small, case drew far less national attention, cypress hills section brooklyn.video captured aspects shootings three instances, none harrowing images sufficient render sort justice activists many mourned dead seeking. june, federal prosecutors involved sterling investigation announced inadequate evidence bring civil rights charges officers responsible killing. although millions watch videos might regard overwhelming confirmation abuse, “proof” determined iffy. sterling case echoed ramarley graham, cite one example, shot home bronx white police officer ultimately faced federal civil rights charges either (and trial state court indictment manslaughter thrown prosecutorial error).over summer, police officer shot mr. castile acquitted criminal charges, past week, three days deliberation, brooklyn jury cleared wayne isaacs murder manslaughter charges death mr. small, way home barbecue girlfriend, teenage daughter couple’s new baby killed.of deaths distinguished propelled black lives matter movement, perhaps offers powerful illustration dangerously broad latitude give police officers make claims self-defense gun civilians. mr. small’s girlfriend, zaquanna albert, testified trial, mr. isaacs, off-duty police officer unmarked car, twice cut traveling atlantic avenue far left lane, long afternoon evening celebrating july 4 holiday.driving baby car fraught enterprise circumstance, mr. small perhaps understandably undone maneuver could landed family accident. long history caretaker. mother died aids 29, mr. small’s sister, victoria davis, told break trial one afternoon, tried protect younger siblings horrible foster-care situation. two older children two women, sharon seward monique parker, remained close mr. small attended trial proceedings. mr. small longtime father figure another child ms. parker’s.during trial, images mr. small’s bloodied body shown courtroom, women life began sob, judge ordered brief recess. video gone circulation long mr. small killed showed approaching mr. isaac’s car driver’s side almost immediately getting shot falling ground. mr. isaacs, represented stephen c. worth, lawyer made name defending police officers killed civilians, said mr. small punched mr. isaacs open car window, something video indicate.but even mr. small, unarmed, throw punch, hard see could possibly warranted grabbing semiautomatic handgun shooting three times. two men bar got fight giants game one punched causing draw pistol shoot adversary, shooter would struggle self-defense claim — law new york requires use parallel force. lethal force justified cases reasonable perception deadly extremely violent threat — punch jaw would presumably fail pass test.police officers face different standard comes retreating potentially dangerous situations, judge charged jury think mr. isaacs different driver.earlier year oklahoma, unlike new york stand-your-ground law, appeals court upheld murder conviction man shot killed another parking lot following episode road rage involving high-speed car chase. like mr. small, victim got pickup truck made way toward assailant, shot inside car. mr. isaacs’ case, prosecutors state attorney general’s office argued instead shooting man feared — however rationally irrationally — might kill him, could simply rolled window driven away, making turn atlantic avenue. ms. davis, mr. small’s sister, put spoke her, “wayne isaacs many choices chose kill.”the jury, mixed demographically age race, saw things differently. mr. isaacs black supported courtroom row white men blue white jackets representing patrolmen’s benevolent association. complex racial dynamics may something outcome absolutely nothing it. event, jurors saw mr. isaacs ordinary man way home work cop — afforded privileges.
stephen j. dubner, ‘freakonomics’ ‘tell something don’t know,’ spends sundays stephen j. dubner, co-author best-selling book “freakonomics,” also host public radio show “freakonomics radio” well podcast “tell something don’t know.” latter, brainy game show, dedicated fact checker, features guests discuss knowledge niche subjects like origin seltzer robotic fish. mr. dubner, 54, lives upper west side wife, ellen binder (“she going hyphenate name got married, decided binder-dubner sounded much like ‘been there, done that,’” mr. dubner said); two children, solomon, 17, anya, 15; family havanese, fifi.break dawn like sleep little bit, i’ll get 6 6:30. week i’m 5. grew farm, like quiet predawn. i’ll go let dog leash central park, that. try make big breakfast right around time everyone waking up. find smell bacon world’s best alarm clock. while, know nobody’s going around, i’ll go play golf saint andrew’s golf club hastings-on-hudson. love playing alone. it’s fast, i’d usually home 9:30 10.teen support there, way day unfolds depends rest family doing. thing try routine. mean kids teenagers, lot going on. homework, they’re preparing sat, i’ve working lot week, try around them. may want use lot, may want use zero.the beautiful game different components things might sunday. instance, son soccer fanatic. support fc barcelona, barcelona football club. years ago chapter fan club started new york, think they’re biggest fan club outside catalonia barcelona. they’ll events sometimes sunday, two us go club chelsea called smithfield hall. we’ll go drink beers — doesn’t, — that’s good sunday, spend hours penya fc barcelona. guess “penya” means “club” “fan,” don’t even know. sunday also son record soccer podcast, called “footy two.” it’s basically espousing passion educating time.eating adventures daughter i’m really trying ready whatever feels good. dream sunday we’ll go shopping food spend whole afternoon cooking dinner. there’s really good farmers’ market right door columbus avenue, make may depend they’re selling. usually try every time eat something weird exotic one us never eaten before. couple weeks ago, star fruit, kids never it. half family eating meats aren’t typical meats. that’s men. women much eating known unknown vegetables. works out, too.tick, tick, tick another aspiration four us watch “60 minutes” sunday night. even though show handles heavy, serious topics, somehow bridges gap. it’s tv, it’s accessible, nice way get kids thinking politics little bit more.all family try contact one siblings, usually phone. i’m youngest eight, it’s hard touch everyone time, rotation. it’s peace-inducing connection me. family easily important component life. there’s substitute emotional connection. call siblings like putting bow beginning week: knowing you’re get sent little paper boats rocky sea world, you’re buffeted around family. hopefully strength sustain you.
older people play dodgeball, too: ‘we animals’ lot whooping hollering group exuberant students gathered recess time asphalt green upper east side. playing game called “popcorn.”“listen everyone,” yelled one instructors, zack cruz, quiet noise. “we going throw ball air, clap one time, catch it, pass neighbor. everyone ready go? say yes!”one student crouched down. “we this,” said.but student 8; probably 80s. popcorn players day retirement age, older.since mid-1980s, asphalt green specialized creating athletic programs children. one biggest initiatives nonprofit sending coaches new york city schools play active games 28,000 children recess.this year, however, asphalt green trainers decided apply expertise older generations, developing class called skills motion, features adult versions playground games. older people “are different type kid,” said mr. cruz. “you young kids, big kids. want free silly.”over next hour, group mastered game, adding balls, complexity, mix. split teams played volleyball colorful balloons. formed circle holding hands passed around hula hoop without letting go, using bodies. beat rhythm sticks air, dancing favorite songs ’60s ’80s.they also played versions dodgeball, tag fireball, required rolling ball around circle using hands paddles.“when tell friends i’m going 60-plus class, think i’m sitting chair, stretching,” said lois siegel, 79. “but animals. fight balloon ball. feel like kid again.”the program currently tried five locations across city: asphalt green campuses (on upper east side battery park city), carter burden roosevelt island senior center, two union settlements east harlem. right 70 participants. asphalt green hoping make program available thousands next year.instructors say constantly surprised students’ competitiveness enthusiasm moving strenuous creative ways. “earlier go ground, one starting bear crawl,” said samantha frazier, one coaches. “that person didn’t even want bend first, goes.”that’s exactly idea. class created challenge older people move ways preserve strength coordination future. activities deliberately test balance, participants learn readjust bodies keep two feet ground.“if someone throws ball, don’t know going go, react,” said david ludwig, asphalt green’s director community programs.“we want show floor enemy,” said marcy simon, manager senior fitness programs. “you know get floor without hurting yourself.”preventing older people falling, mr. ludwig said, small feat. according new york state department health, annual cost hospitalizations falls around $1.7 billion. top that, 60 percent hospitalizations lead stays nursing homes rehabilitative centers, compounds costs even more.“i’ve never fallen, thank god,” said jennie lorenzana, 74, lives upper east side. “but take class makes feel confident. hour goes fast — fast.”that said, balloon volleyball shouldn’t prevention method people, experts say. “workout classes alone best way prevent falls,” said kathleen cameron, senior director center healthy aging national council aging. “other factors include reviewing medications, making home safe, getting eyes ears checked regularly, talking doctor family.”ms. cameron added it’s soon tell whether asphalt green program, still pilot phase, produce quantifiable results. nonprofit trying measure partnering team nearby hospital special surgery, specializes orthopedics, survey collect data participants throughout program’s 20-week session.participants need scientific data, however, enjoy robust social life. indeed, playground games seem advantage schoolchildren looking make friends 60-plus crowd.ms. siegel learning spanish new friends, teach new word every time sees them. “i see wave say, ‘buenos dias,’” said ms. siegel, runs workout buddies, explained, local places like dollar tree 101st street. “this class opened many doors me.”
diner regulars (tourists welcome too) hugh carragher sitting counter court square diner, tentacles 7, g, e lines converge long island city, queens. coming diner twice daily 55 years. he’s 80 retired. morning, eating bowl raisin bran.“this like another home me,” said, adding walks apartment woodside, couple miles away.there hurry finish breakfast. let cereal get soggy rainy day.the court square diner home wide cross-section customers: regulars like mr. carragher, tourists neighboring hotels, visitors moma ps 1, people jury duty cuny law school students faculty.“i know everybody, know me,” said gary fitzgerald, woodworker lived neighborhood seven years. lifelong diner aficionado, he, too, daily breakfast dinner counter customer. “i haven’t cooked meal since october 1986,” said. “this 56-year-old body diner built.”the staff starts setting order sits down. “it’s nice know there’s still place term ‘regular coffee’ means something,” said. (in queens, it’s milk two sugars.)the diner, dates 1946, three owners. steve kanellos nick kanellos, brothers know many customers name, took 1991.a couple years later, renovated exterior, choosing retro chrome cranberry facade.“there’s place around that’s open 24 hours day,” steve kanellos said. “and many places buy groceries here, people come ask borrow lemon garlic.”tamas prencsok mother, susan vundele, tourists hungary, stopped diner near airbnb apartment.“we see diners home movies,” said.it last day new york city, sorry hadn’t discovered court square sooner.a couple booths over, carolyn ismach thinking much thing. ms. ismach, 32, speech therapist lives long island city, two subway stops away, first time she’s diner.“i’ve wanting try diners best food,” said finished platter eggs, bacon, home fries toast. “i’ll back.”while mr. carragher paying bill — $3.95 raisin bran $2.50 glass cranberry juice — another regular, sam yazdi, sat next ordered standard breakfast: egg whites, bacon, french toast, orange juice coffee.mr. yazdi 27-year-old graduate student real estate finance new york university lives across street. “i’m friends everyone works here,” said. “i even joined weekly fantasy football league.”for him, diner, seats 108, cozy place get comfort food. ideal competitive bodybuilder like mr. yazdi, consumes 4,000 calories day, least 1,000 diner.“i eat five meals, come every morning,” said. “i’m also week dinner specials. like leg lamb.”when mr. carragher returns later evening, might well run mr. yazdi mr. fitzgerald. may point.
dogs surely one new york’s grandest sights, dog: prospect park sunny fall morning.there, off-leash hours, linked fields long meadow transform canine fantasia. acres acres green grass abound, along hills grass trees grass and, distance, grass.and dogs, course — hundreds them, freed fuddy-duddy humans, playing chase clumped together growly play-scrums taking wild-eyed sprints, tongues waving like pennants. tennis balls flying early rounds u.s. open. butt-sniffing opportunities nearly infinite.what dog wouldn’t love this?ours, turns out. lemon shih tzu mix many fine qualities, courage one them. approach open fields off-leash hours, 16-pound body tenses visibly. slightest foray onto grass prompts frantic scamper back asphalt.dogs permitted off-leash new york city parks sunrise 9 a.m. 9 p.m. 1 a.m., designated areas. rules codified parks department 2007; since then, off-leash time prospect park grown popularity, trend mirrors resurgence park whole recent decades. park counted 10 million visits 2016, according prospect park alliance, 1 2 million 1987, year alliance founded.millions human visits, course, usually means lots dogs. pet-related data would seem support this: 10-year period ending 2015, instance, brooklyn saw 200-plus increase number veterinarians borough, according report new york city economic development corporation.“we’re seeing people coming off-leash hours sure,” said sue donoghue, president alliance, whose springer spaniel, dwayne, long meadow regular.the alliance works groups like fido prospect park, organization promotes safe responsible dog ownership, encouraging owners adhere off-leash rules. ongoing challenge: new york spirit-of-the-law town, prospect park one observe dogs let off-leash time day, almost anywhere four legs travel — least parks department vehicle prowls by. (fines begin $100.)lemon’s refusal join off-leash circus stems, far wife tell, single traumatic puppyhood experience, ruefully call it, “the day one dog chased her.” three us watch footpaths dogs frolic.on given morning see every kind dog brooklyn offer: purebreds rescue mutts in-betweeners, fluffypoos shaggydoodles whose dna designer cocktail cute.they come sizes. maximus, imposing sweet-natured mastiff, frequent visitor. owner, jonathan poe park slope, calls maximus “125-pound lap dog.”less cumbersome two poodles named coco heather (nattily dressed, met them, red sweater pink vest, respectively) make trip prospect park carriers toted owner, wendy taylor, bedford-stuyvesant.others travel much farther: ann cipolla locust valley, n.y., drives brooklyn almost every weekend april october gio, lagotto romagnolo. breed known official italian truffle-hunting dog, said ms. cipolla, though, brief encounter, gio concerned chasing bugs.nothing wrong that. off-leash hours perfect venue self-expression — dogs, least. black labrador pit bull circle dance, mouths clamped blue ball, like high school party game. beagle rolls hill, ears first. pug runs rocking horse gait pack bigger dogs, trying keep up.elsewhere couple rust-colored pointers treed something, presumably squirrel. long-haired mutt emerges muddy bog looking like day 3 woodstock. worry: nearby fenced-in pond splash around in, newly renovated dog beach.the scene reached peak saturday morning october, fido held monthly meet-and-greet, called coffee bark. dozens dogs owners congregated near picnic house coffee bagels dog mingling, off-leash fray carried fields below.at 8 a.m. pastor arrived administer blessing dogs, annual coffee bark event timed feast st. francis assisi; pastor offered short benediction sprinkled holy water small bottle heads gathered pets.(another coffee bark tradition, “bark herald angels sing,” featuring dog-themed christmas hanukkah songs, scheduled first saturday december.)lemon arrived short blessing. predictably nervous among dogs, head swivel, tail pointing straight down, drag us away. maybe scent holy water lingering air, appeared revelation.lo, man handing name-brand doggy treats — blessings aside, coffee bark immune product placement. lemon chomped treat, wife discreetly unhooked leash harness suddenly, squeamish shih tzu officially participating off-leash hours.it hard tell lemon enjoying herself; distracted treats. learned trick wallflower humans always known, hang food table.later walked field, where, fleeting minutes lemon sat bravely grass, untethered undaunted furry maelstrom around her. even consented certain amount butt-sniffing persistent amorous chihuahua.but chihuahua treat offer save affections, lemon soon trotted back safety asphalt.we’ll take off-leash thing puppy-steps.
alcohol derailed life. drives barflies home. carlos nin stays awake well night, keeping late hours alcoholic. evenings spent familiar company barflies, revelers party seekers. except mr. nin companion. ride.as uber driver new york city, frequently chauffeurs intoxicated customers. says feel tugs jealousy temptation around clients. anything, said, feels remorse.“why couldn’t younger?” mr. nin said recently. “just go out, drinks.”mr. nin, 55, sober almost 19 months. said hoped third stint rehabilitation program would last.the addiction took hold 20s, working restaurant industry. easy shift, mr. nin said, let steam co-workers cocktails. drinking, often coupled cocaine use, worsened years went on, costing jobs, home marriage.“when drink go drink, knew kind problem,” mr. nin said. “i thought always could control it.”in 2015, mr. nin finished second alcohol-treatment program, found job valet hospital parking garage, confident conquered demons.but friday night trip empire city casino yonkers brought abrupt end 17 months sobriety.“i bored,” mr. nin recalled. “that’s one things. want drink i’m bored.”in bid fight impulses, ordered nonalcoholic beer $9. second. seemed foolish, said, spend much money drinks even feel buzz. mr. nin returned casino, stopped bodega bought two six-packs presidente beer. began backslide.“when started going downhill, drink two go work,” mr. nin said.before long, fired valet job. moment prompted overdue self-reflection. ruts continually found unacceptable man 50s, mr. nin said.in march 2016, entered five-day detox program, followed 21 days rehabilitation. went pride site, long-term inpatient rehabilitation program manhattan offers addicts range support services work recovery.there, mr. nin learned association community employment programs, nonprofit helps homeless people ex-convicts get back feet. gave room renting entered rehabilitation. agency partner community service society, one eight organizations supported new york times neediest cases fund.as re-evaluated life, set sights earning living uber driver. february, enrolled classes laguardia community college acquire license city’s taxi limousine commission. community service society used $31 fund buy mr. nin weekly metrocard could attend classes.six days week, mr. nin sits behind wheel rental car, cost split partner, shuttling people destinations across city. day, works parking garage. friends relatives cautioned working much. mr. nin says packed schedule strategic: long hours necessary earn living wage, keep trouble. consequences much time hands dire.when mr. nin find unoccupied, usually day off, visits friends shares meal relatives.focusing health newfound sobriety, mr. nin set several goals himself, motivation always come easy. hopes join gym, least start 20 push-ups day. also wants begin running routine, least start walking bit more. wants find sponsor, least resume regularly attending alcoholics anonymous meetings. times, mr. nin said, pulled meeting, drive away pick fare.“i know i’m making excuses,” said, adding wants address procrastination.mr. nin receives monthly injections keep urges alcohol check. also sees therapist regularly. longest time sober since remember, said.“i know keep things i’ve doing,” mr. nin said.he says desire drink. knows never able one drink stop. find tempted, mr. nin said, promised call sister.after months putting off, mr. nin attended alcohol anonymous meeting last month washington heights section manhattan, lives. expected welcoming possibly see friendly faces. instead, felt place said little. two meetings since.“i know better that,” said. “and will.”
make sense rent house rather sell it? q. house maplewood, n.j., wondering: ever make sense rent house rather sell it? advantages renting? rule thumb decide it’s worth financially? a. crunch numbers, decide want landlord. prepared take call 3 a.m. heat fails blizzard january? dishwasher won’t work properly, expected fix problem immediately. rent late (or arrive) chase tenant money, maybe even take case housing court.“being landlord isn’t it’s cracked be,” said jonathan j. miller, president miller samuel real estate appraisers consultants manhattan.generally, renters maintain homes way owners do. consider finicky dishwasher: house dishwasher last legs, might hold afford new stainless steel model matches newer refrigerator. tenant expect functioning dishwasher pronto, so, chances are, swap aging one cheap white model. come time sell house, overall condition kitchen diminished.“i’ve people who’ve rented homes come back it’s never house left,” said allison maguire, sales associate halstead montclair, n.j. “no one takes care rental it’s true home.”to make decision, research rental market, fluctuations necessarily tied sales market. help broker, estimate much rent could fetch: would enough cover mortgage taxes? consider expenses, too, like landscaping services, insurance. ask accountant tax implications. factor vacancies repairs. may need hire property manager if, example, move area.tally estimated profit number years anticipate renting house. compare figure cash would walk away sell house today. potential payoff worth headache landlord? might be. landlord job, decide one want. “a long-term hold, generally, come ahead,” mr. miller said. “but people don’t factor hassle.”
wing, chic women’s club, going wide doorstep 52 mercer street soho recent thursday night, line women mostly 20s 30s, exuding anticipation, snaked halfway around next block. man asked waiting walked by. one seemed notice one answered. business anyway?upstairs ipadded list checkers, fifth floor, 10,000-square-foot second location wing, women-only club co-working space new york city year founding poised take across country particular brand instagrammable feminism: mindful history, striving diversity sponsored chanel.the club 1,500 members, many paying $3,000 annually access wing’s locations, march include brooklyn washington, d.c. los angeles san francisco likely next. next week, like goop it, wing offer first edition print magazine, man’s land, sold barnes & noble newsstands. “it members’ pamphlet,” said deidre dyer, magazine’s executive editor. “we wanted meaty substantial.”as shared professional social spaces increasingly supplant traditional office, female-dedicated organizations thrived. though (yet?) shework, shecosystem toronto hera hub, three locations san diego area well one washington, d.c., phoenix uppsala, sweden. st. louis, rise collaborative workspace.but wing stood glamorous founders, audrey gelman lauren kassan, 30, cultivated circle social-media celebrities includes writer, editor actress tavi gevinson, jessica williams (formerly “the daily show”) transgender actress gucci model hari nef, appears cover man’s land. (the profile ms. nef edited new york times magazine staff editor also wing member.)“we lot members transgender, trans women,” ms. gelman said; include chelsea manning.ms. gevinson, also featured man’s land, initially reluctant join wing. “i work home, that’s almost justify rent,” said. went visit first club, opened flatiron district october 2016: awash millennial pink, softly lit desks working, beauty room primping, snack bar coffees organic granola, plenty art, lactation room large library color-organized books written women.“the look dreams,” ms. gevinson said. “it’s crazy place exists real life. joined right away.”over course 18 months, club raised $10 million investors, recently group led tony florence, general partner venture capital firm nea. also backs goop, luxury shopping site moda operandi casper, mattress company. man, allowed visit wing members present.”my ability understand market opportunity need kind business extends beyond man woman,” mr. florence said involvement. “it’s attractive financial model.”what remains seen kind business bigger wing might be: locus mediacentric feminist movement, like ms. 1970s, mass-scaled temple “exclusivity,” like soho house, soho house wrapped marketing banner she-power.ms. gelman, former political press representative worked 2013 campaign new york city comptroller scott stringer, helped inspire character marnie television show “girls,” created lena dunham. native manhattanites met adolescence ms. gelman’s mother, ms. dunham’s therapist, became close friends oberlin college avidly covered press stars rose together young adulthood.ms. gelman appeared “girls” several times audrey, marnie’s nemesis. romance fashion photographer terry richardson well documented. vanity fair put best-dressed list. vogue covered wedding ilan zechory, founder genius, music website (ms. dunham bridesmaid).she got idea current venture getting job political consulting firm skdknickerbocker, offices soho washington. commuting frequently home brooklyn, ms. gelman longed place could change clothes, take shower chill meetings. thought might called refresh.but “refresh bad name,” said last week, sitting round marble table pink conference room ms. kassan; partnership began suggestion ms. kassan’s husband. “it sounds like vaginal douche product.”“i think might be,” said ms. kassan, previously worked boutique fitness, director business development classpass studio company slt. experienced operations community management, “back house” partner ms. gelman’s frontwoman. earlier investors included julie rice elizabeth cutler, founded soulcycle, susan lyne, managing partner bbg ventures, formerly gilt groupe martha stewart living omnimedia.“we like audrey liked audrey’s conviction women wanted women, safe place also beautiful,” ms. lyne said phone interview. “audrey said, ‘i’ve changed starbucks bathroom one many times.’”by spring 2016, found 3,500-square-foot space 12th floor building east 20th street rent, hired all-female team — alda ly, architect, chiara de rege hilary koyfman, interior designers — realize vision. ms. koyfman described look wing domino magazine “kind like ‘mad men’ — without men.” wing also began work branding women-only design team pentagram. ms. gelman took charge social-media marketing. (“we’re coven, sorority” describes wing instagram.)for founding membership 200 women, ms. gelman ms. kassan tapped networks: media professionals, entrepreneurs artists, sometimes bartering membership, cost $2,100 year, services. immediate waiting list.when club opened, wingers, like many women around country, anticipating historic election first female president united states. didn’t happen, founders said, space took new urgency.“we expectation would first women president would golden age feminism women get rooms like result momentum,” ms. gelman said. “very quickly overnight went feeling little protective.”ms. kassan ms. gelman said began hearing members along previously planned offerings like lessons flower arrangement, breakfasts themed signs zodiac panels news topics, interested programming events focused women’s rights politics. founders scheduled events like “workshop anxiety & depression post-trump world,” “a night interfaith sisterhood jews muslims” “a conversation senator kirsten gillibrand,” well attended.they organized buses take members women’s march washington, pink hats fortuitously coordinated de rege-koyfman color scheme.a months wing opened, “girls” included plotline featuring women-only club new york. ms. dunham’s telling, club called wemun (“women entrepreneurs meet now”) one women running meeting said, “whether it’s rock romper work event voting for, wemun woman person ask.”this episode sent critics writers aired. cut published article, “did lena dunham shade wing ‘girls?’” ms. dunham told reporter resemblance wing ms. gelman accidental trimmed scene.to two entrepreneurs trying make business supporting women’s careers, though, joke seemed landed thud. ms. gelman stopped following ms. dunham instagram months, week. (“friends fight, friends make up, life long,” ms. gelman said.)they took less personally plotline season “younger,” main characters badly want membership nest, women-only club.“it’s like ‘sex city’ today,” ms. kassan said “younger,” “and it’s like pretend thing ‘sex city,’ awesome.”back reality, around-the-block line soho comprised women named members, allowed new space existing members.the initiates grouped around tarot-card readers, political/feminist slogan button-making stations, potion-making table booth voter registration. food, wine massive rice krispie treats shape wing’s w logo. scene awkward excitement new-student mixer women’s college.mandi nyambi, 24, sat couch herself. ms. nyambi, works digital platform, one pay $3,000 per year access clubs. “if tried get co-working space elsewhere, would cost would miss value proposition wealth network women,” said. hoping parties finish, wing truly place work serious connection. “i’m little overwhelmed,” said.margit detweiler, 50-year-old new member, standing back, beholding crowd. joined wing, said, lives brooklyn needs “a pit stop” manhattan. “how often space like women?” said ms. detweiler, founder tuenight, online magazine live events company women 40. “the energy palpable.” (the wing’s founders say trying increase non-millennial membership.)ms. gelman ms. kassan milling party greeting new members. ms. gelman carrying red bull iphone. ms. kassan carrying utero first child, due january. long week 18-hour-on-their-feet work days leading opening. didn’t even time go home get ready party; primped, naturally, wing’s beauty room filled chanel products.brands paying club marketing access members. earlier fall, member received big bottle chanel perfume mail. hulu sponsored “handmaid’s tale” event flatiron club, margaret atwood, book’s author, made special video.thanks part enticements, members hardly ever leave. scarlett curtis, 22, gen-z columnist sunday times london student new york university. learned wing following ms. gelman instagram. parents paid first six months, says pays dues now.ms. curtis frequently wing complains father doesn’t boyfriend, says, “stop hanging wing time.” he’s jealous can’t visit space, ms. curtis said, remembering amusement day male plumber visited employee charged community-building “told every member man coming space.”ms. gelman ms. kassan say try hire commission women every service company needs, sometimes it’s important look beyond gender.“our electrician isn’t woman,” ms. kassan said conference room.ms. gelman said, “it’s also one things work business.”as gym, ms. kassan pays particular attention usage patterns members track members professions ages come space time. ms. gelman consider might fill gaps (they would like members doctors, example), well demographics including religion, race, sexual orientation gender identification, among others. internally, refer process “minority-led membership.”“we ask members send us one social media profile understand them,” ms. gelman said.raven stralow, 33, works addicts families, also owns husband farm upstate new york. many meetings manhattan began comparison-shop co-working spaces. looked ludlow house thought people looked conspicuously hip. looked wework didn’t like culture drinking heard about. saw wing instagram applied, thinking wouldn’t get in. “i don’t ton instagram followers, don’t curated anything,” ms. stralow said.but accepted quickly, felt comfortable there. “i’m woman color wear hair natural,” said. beauty room wing includes products combs suit hair. “there always seems effort inclusion,” said.there challenges effort. along membership fees, charges $30 per hour semiprivate work rooms snack bar’s food, coffee wine (no outside food allowed inside). limits economic diversity membership.ms. kassan ms. gelman sensitive criticism elitism said plan announce scholarship program next year. “it never goal go business begin certainly go business create product uber-wealthy, don’t think is,” ms. gelman said.the wing also interesting position marketing women-only company moment progressive forces american culture pushing less binary, fluid interpretation gender, evinced ms. nef’s presence cover man’s land.if person applied membership looked like man said identified woman, ms. gelman said would likely check person’s social media feeds look indications person “living woman,” said. looked women’s colleges guidance construct policies. barnard college, example, stipulates “will consider admission applicants consistently live identify women.”but staple colleges’ english curriculums, virginia woolf, whose guiding specter still hovers enterprise. “we still believe women deserve spaces own,” ms. gelman said.
quietly left church, sexual abuse continued leaving active ministry 2002 priest brooklyn, stephen placa got pilot’s license founded flight school ronkonkoma, long island, heritage flight academy. seven years later, convicted suffolk county sexual abuse two boys, ages 8 10.in 1987, rev. thomas o. morrow went indefinite leave absence diocese brooklyn began working psychologist forest hills. still officially priest indicted 1996 charges sodomized 15-year-old boy hired counsel, took nude photographs gave crack smoke. diocese said time never gotten complaints abuse. eventually, defrocked him.the two men among eight priests roman catholic diocese brooklyn revealed thursday laicized, defrocked, vatican sexual abuse children since 2002. eight, four went arrested convicted child sex abuse charges left active ministry brooklyn. four appear arrested, though whether reoffended unknown.the public disclosure eight likely dozens priests sexually abused children brooklyn diocese decades met mixture praise frustration victims advocates friday. gratified disclosures would probably protect additional children, noted nowhere near full accounting clergy sex abuse diocese.“i’m encouraged release eight names — think it’s good,” said michael reck, lawyer representing two victims romano j. ferraro, among eight former priests named thursday. “but trickle compared flood holding back.”carolyn erstad, spokeswoman diocese, said friday chosen release names living priests formally defrocked vatican could still danger children. said releasing names dead priests defrocked longer threat.she address diocese withholding names abusers named victims successful abuse settlements, formally laicized. abusive priests laicized; process vatican long always result loss clerical state.“this releasing names people may access children,” said, adding diocese anticipated names would added list next week.she noted diocese routinely shares allegations abuse law enforcement, done since 2002, reforms passed nationally roman catholic church protect children. that, common withhold allegations abuse law enforcement. also noted diocese previously publicly acknowledged substantiated allegations priests.of eight men named thursday, notorious mr. ferraro, believed one prolific priest pedophiles eastern seaboard, one known.his past church divulged diocese brooklyn, which, four-year battle, required disclose 1,200 pages information personnel file civil suit miami relating abuse boy key west 1969. papers show church officials brooklyn knew early 1973 abused boys, helped get jobs dioceses around country longer wanted brooklyn. said revealed attraction young boys seminary.in 1981, anthony bevilacqua, high-ranking brooklyn chancery official, later became cardinal archbishop philadelphia, facilitated mr. ferraro’s move missouri parish, later accused molesting children. also allegedly abused boys dioceses rockville centre metuchen, n.j.he formally removed ministry 1988, 2004, convicted child sexual assault raping massachusetts boy 1970s. serving life sentence medium-security prison bridgewater, mass. throughout career, 1960 1988, officially priest diocese brooklyn.although diocese identified eight former priests, impossible know cases diocese knew abuse it. church’s brief statement says years served active priests, laicizations took place, first allegations came in.of priests, several never publicly named sex abusers, including james lara, lost job professor arizona state university thursday name posted.charles m. mangini went live old bridge, n.j. removal ministry 1993. reached home thursday, 79-year-old affirmed cheery voice priest brooklyn. quickly changed tone told diocese posted name.christopher lee coleman, 61, removed ministry 2011, still maintains facebook page, linkedin page makes seem priest. “i live vowed life. ordained 21 may 1994, roman catholic diocese brooklyn,” says.the linkedin page says got doctorate sociology cuny graduate center, since 2013 hermit counselor, hermitage peace. address given queen saints church fort greene, brooklyn.anthony hughes, 42, clergy sex abuse victim diocese regularly participates activities holds abuse survivors, said friday “fabulous idea” names released, hoped would more. told diocese planning releasing names deceased priests, volunteered name deceased priest abused him.“father robert titone,” said, “at st. anthony - st. alphonsus greenpoint, brooklyn.” mr. hughes, recently received settlement abuse, said 11 abuse started poor family. recalled priest generous. “he greatest thing since sliced bread,” mr. hughes said, “and sickness came him.”
woman charged deadly fire said angry trash, officials said woman accused starting fire killed two people brooklyn apartment building week told detectives lit fire angry garbage left hallway, officials said.the woman, joanna mei, 22, charged friday two counts murder one count arson. detectives questioning 68th precinct station house bay ridge, law enforcement official said still trying develop clear picture motive since walked precinct station house day earlier.she appeared court early friday evening. lawyer, peter kolp, said statement, “our deepest sympathies loss life tragic incident. need conduct investigation look forward client’s day court.”minutes 7 a.m. thursday, fire ripped three-story building five apartments 6709 11th ave., dyker heights neighborhood. security-camera footage next door shows girl pajamas acting agitated sidewalk 6:55 a.m. moments later, small crowd gathered, including man sprinted waved frantically downward motion, apparently people building’s upper floors.by 7:01 a.m., firefighters hoisted ladder. firefighters arrived within three minutes receiving call, said james e. leonard, fire department’s chief department, flames shot first floor filled brick building.investigators later found husband wife dead third-floor apartment. police identified feng xu, 56, husband, xi huang, 58.four people — 31-year-old man, 30-year-old woman, 4-year-old girl 3-month-old boy — taken maimonides medical center stable condition smoke inhalation, police said.three firefighters also treated injuries, including one sustained burns, officials said. released hospital friday afternoon.the fire department said evidence working smoke detectors building. ground floor nail salon, beside door leading apartments above.fire marshals sent dog scour building evidence accelerant may used start blaze. marshals determined fire deliberately set around garbage building’s first-floor hallway, city official said.detectives still working piece together ms. mei’s past understand motive, law enforcement official said.kevin wu, owner cellphone store next door, whose security camera captured commotion fire began, said residents, including couple died, hailed chinese city taishan guangdong province.mr. wu described mr. huang slight man lived little year. know man’s wife. mr. wu said often saw mr. huang pacing sidewalk talking cellphone, added mr. huang paid cellphone bill earlier week store.“nice man,” mr. wu said.a charred door lay sidewalk front building friday afternoon, resting mangled, partly melted baby stroller. police tape police car cordoned front building.through smashed-out windows third floor, pumpkin-colored pinwheel could seen spinning beside metal shelf held box legos.
feminism’s a-list attends kate millett’s memorial new york like many rousing military celebrations, kate millett’s memorial service began bagpipes.the veterans second-wave feminism turned hundreds, foot soldiers commanders alike, including gloria steinem letty cottin pogrebin, wore leather pants, revolutionary-style. (“we didn’t coordinate that,” ms. pogrebin said.) cynthia macadams, photographer known 1977 book, “emergence,” collection portraits era’s feminists heroes — patti smith, lily tomlin ms. steinem — wore voluminous orange silk scarf looked like military sash. rendition dylan thomas’s “do go gentle good night,” anguished dirge late friend.phyllis chesler, activist author, worn cast, she’d broken leg. instead, brought walker cane. ended reflections reading st. crispin’s day speech “henry v,” recast feminine pronouns: “we few, happy few, band sisters,” on.ms. millett died sept. 6 paris, week 83rd birthday, sophie keir, spouse partner 39 years, side. memorial held thursday afternoon fourth universalist society, unitarian church central park west.before service, friends family traded war stories. barbara love, lesbian activist, remembered protest 50 years ago she, ms. millett others demonstrated new york times gender-segregated want ads. ms. love recalled, hilariously, many actions ms. millett attended toilet. “it arrested several times,” said ms. love toilet, though one famous demonstration front colgate-palmolive offices park avenue, ms. millett others dumped soap flakes protest company’s treatment women assembly line.ms. millett’s final demonstration women’s march last january new york city, ms. love said. attended wheelchair, holding sign name it. police opened barricades her, march’s organizers led front line, demonstrators approached ms. millett pay respects give thanks. “even police knew was,” ms. love said. fitting tribute woman called famous feminist you’ve never heard of.ms. millett oxford-educated author “sexual politics,” doctoral thesis columbia university became global sensation published 1970. rigorous analysis gender dynamics literature history revealed deep-rooted pattern male discrimination pointed women’s conditioning second-class status.as judith shulevitz wrote recently new york review books, ms. millett invented feminist literary criticism. “sex pol,” ms. millett called it, would land cover time magazine, proclaimed mao zedong woman’s movement, though many recalled thursday, ms. millett uneasy fame. discomfort extremely shy suffered manic-depression, anticipated, rightly, fury would greet scholarship.but still game changer. “it made feminist,” said ms. pogrebin, adding first book, “how make man’s world,” “sexual politics,” published year publisher, doubleday, two women shared editor, betty prashker.“betty gave kate’s manuscript,” ms. pogrebin said, “and reading it, wanted toss mine trash. felt like capitulating patriarchy, kate arguing revolution. ‘sexual politics’ epiphany.”ms. steinem began reflections reading note catharine a. mackinnon, feminist activist legal scholar argued persuasively sexual harassment title ix issue, wrote introduction last year’s reprint “sexual politics” columbia university press. quoting ms. mackinnon, ms. steinem declared ms. millett “conceived critique sexuality male-dominated bedroom boardroom potted plant.”then ms. steinem paused looked crowd. “don’t kind wish could read kate harvey weinstein?” said, loud applause laughter group clearly familiar producer’s alleged emissions potted plant.the speakers recalled ms. millett’s upstate new york farm, otherwise known farm, conceived utopian women’s arts colony, bare-breasted women grew christmas trees ms. millett would sell bowery december. early days, said linda clarke, old friend, neighbors would complain nudity call police, ms. millett over.on farm, ms. clarke said, ms. millett finally president university, reference ms. millett’s frustration able hold academic post. (in 1968 fired teaching position barnard college role student protests there.)the nine female speakers, including yoko ono, spoke wheelchair, recalled ms. millett’s dadaist artwork (chairs human arms legs; stools wearing shoes; giant vulvas) proud bohemianism — eleanor pam, president veteran feminists america, called reverse elitism.“she probably person world believed evicted bowery step down,” ms. pam said.the actor kathleen turner stand-in hillary clinton robin morgan, author activist. distinctive, throaty bass, ms. turner read short letter mrs. clinton, stirring recollection ms. morgan. one war story, ms. morgan described party thrown ms. millett’s bowery loft pay legal fees women arrested miss america pageant protest atlantic city 1968. many people showed up, floor buckled. result, money raised night went shoring building, rather lawyers destined for.more seriously, ms. turner said, “a feminist generation marching again, time shadow. another generation march sun.”in speeches, folk singer activist holly near led audience familiar protest anthems back day, including “bread roses,” poem striking female mill workers, ms. near’s own, “singing lives,” wrote harvey milk murdered. everyone seemed know words. ms. ono joined hands ms. keir ms. chesler.“i wouldn’t missed revolution,” ms. chesler said, “not love money.”
upper west side school zones changed, parents went along mayor held example city needs desegregate public schools: year ago, local education council redrew boundaries 11 elementary school zones manhattan’s upper west side effort reduce overcrowding and, hoped, chip away stark racial economic disparities separated several neighboring schools.a year later, data available first class kindergartners enrolled, results rezoning mixed.the three schools affected rezoning public school 191, p.s. 199 p.s. 452. years, p.s. 191 served housing project, amsterdam houses, students largely poor, black hispanic. p.s. 199, considered many wealthy families one desirable schools manhattan, largely white increasingly overcrowded. p.s. 452, opened 2010, similar demographics p.s. 199.in complex dance, catchment areas three schools redrawn two schools moved. p.s. 191, formerly west 61st street, moved newly constructed building block west, p.s. 452 moved west 77th street, shared building two schools, p.s. 191’s previous building. process, amsterdam houses divided among three schools’ zones, resulting zone significantly diverse. hope p.s. 199 p.s. 452 would gain low-income students, p.s. 191, fresh start new building, would attract upper-middle-class wealthy families.of three schools, p.s. 452 seems changed terms demographics. year’s kindergarten class 51 percent white; last year, 68 percent white. year, 15 61 kindergartners hispanic, compared fewer 10 66 kindergartners last year. numbers small, education department release precise figure. fewer 10 black students attended kindergarten either year.the number low-income students kindergarten p.s. 452, measured department’s formula, also increased: year, 14 kindergarten students poor compared fewer 10 last year.at p.s. 191, results clear. year’s kindergarten class increased 50 students 34 last year. increasing enrollment p.s. 191 one goals rezoning.whether racial makeup kindergarten changed, however, difficult know, number white asian students small year last department withheld data. percentage kindergarten students classified low income, however, decreased 74 percent year 82 percent last year.of three schools, p.s. 199 appears seen least amount change. rezoning shrank p.s. 199’s zone, year’s kindergarten class, 110 students, smaller last year’s, 135. year’s class also whiter last year’s group: 67 percent white compared 61 percent. total percentage black hispanic students kindergarten decreased 10 14 last year. number low-income students increased, much unknown number last year fewer 10 therefore withheld.mark gonsalves owns apartment 165 west end avenue, building shifted rezoning p.s. 199 p.s. 191. son entering kindergarten year, learning disabilities. said looking schools consulting various experts, decided p.s. 199 better fit son. said also concerned imbalance amount money raised p.s. 199’s parent teacher association — nearly $800,000 2015-16 school year — p.s. 191’s, department plan address.“the superintendent basically said schools would separate unequal, jive well me,” mr. gonsalves said.in end, moved family rental apartment new zone p.s. 199, son attends kindergarten.andrew chu’s family also rezoned p.s. 199 p.s. 191. enrolled son prekindergarten p.s. 191 last year, wife decided stick school year. mr. chu joined school leadership team active trying recruit parents school. parents helped organize coding workshop year’s third, seventh eighth graders, financed local city council member, helen rosenthal. said parents also raised money hope hiring mandarin teacher next year prekindergarten kindergarten, goal offering language additional grade year.“demographically, look school versus 452 199, think there’s still pretty disparate difference,” said. said thought new programs, like mandarin coding classes, would appeal parents.recruitment “literally family family,” said, adding, “i think we’re going build momentum going year next.”clara hemphill, editor insideschools.org new school’s center new york city affairs, said thought lack change demographics p.s. 199 suggested parents amsterdam houses rezoned p.s. 199 might choosing instead send children p.s. 191, neighbors’ children go school.“just intimidating white child class, also intimidating child color class,” said. “if going work, sides really think hard make everybody feel welcome.”
manhattan prosecutors subpoena weinstein company records manhattan prosecutors investigating sexual assault allegations harvey weinstein subpoenaed wide range records producer’s former company, well two law firms represented company, two people knowledge matter said friday.the subpoenas indicate significant broadening criminal inquiry, prosecutors police made public last week vanity fair reported allegations actress paz de la huerta raped mr. weinstein.the prosecutor listed subpoenas christopher conroy, chief major economic crimes bureau office manhattan district attorney, cyrus r. vance jr., sign investigation expanding look evidence fraud financial crimes mr. weinstein others.the two people described subpoenas spoke condition anonymity.the records sought mr. weinstein’s former production company include legal settlements women accused sexual misconduct, payroll records documents reflecting received funds dismissed, one people said. mr. weinstein’s personnel file also sought.the prosecutors also seeking records law firms morvillo abramowitz grand iason & anello boies schiller flexner, people said.the morvillo firm represented mr. weinstein connection accusations 2015 sexually assaulted italian model. mr. vance’s office brought charges case, decision come fire. mr. vance said believe prosecutors could prove crime occurred, police officials said arrest made.boies schiller flexner represented production company, weinstein company, connection several matters, including signing contract investigative firm hired try block new york times publishing news story mr. weinstein’s sexual misconduct women.david boies, chairman firm, said aware four many dozen settlements women accused mr. weinstein sexual misconduct, personally involved one. benjamin brafman, one mr. weinstein’s lawyers, declined comment. elkan abramowitz, partner morvillo firm represented mr. weinstein 2015 investigation, declined comment. mr. boies could immediately reached comment.joan vollero, spokeswoman district attorney’s office, declined comment.the new york police department cast wide net investigation mr. weinstein, began days times new yorker detailed long history allegations sexual harassment sexual assault women reports early last month.the reports led deluge tips police new york london episodes. police london los angeles investigating sexual assault allegations mr. weinstein. federal prosecutors manhattan also conducting separate investigation transactions arranged mr. weinstein involving $600,000 raised aids charity auction, people knowledge matter said.ms. de la huerta’s complaint made mr. weinstein focus sex crimes investigators new york.in recent days, ms. de la huerta, actress known work hbo drama “boardwalk empire,” told detectives mr. weinstein raped tribeca apartment two occasions 2010. first time, said, movie producer given ride home meeting asked nightcap apartment. overpowered her, saying, “i know you’re ready become real actress.”the second time, according account, mr. weinstein ignored pleas telephone leave alone waiting lobby arrived home one night. persuading let apartment, raped her, according account.mr. weinstein’s lawyers denied allegations.robert k. boyce, chief detectives new york police department, said ms. de la huerta “put forth credible detailed narrative.”but investigators say case presents hurdles seven years old ms. de la huerta report alleged rapes police time.
karl katz, museum director new york israel, dies 88 karl katz, entranced art history lecture college went become founding curator israel museum, convey metropolitan museum art’s vast collection wider audiences video, play key role finding home international center photography, died wednesday manhattan. 88.his son, jonathan, said cause congestive heart failure.mr. katz also ran jewish museum manhattan; founded directed muse film television, nonprofit producer films art; and, consultant, helped plan museum jewish diaspora tel aviv, museum tolerance los angeles, hans christian andersen museum copenhagen, kiasma museum contemporary art helsinki p. t. barnum museum bridgeport, conn.from 1971 1980, mr. katz chairman special projects met, founded office film television, directed 1980 1991 commissioned nearly 50 films outside filmmakers.they included “metropolitan cats” (1984), feature depiction cats ancient egypt 19th-century paris, “don’t eat pictures” (1983), collaboration museum producers “sesame street” cookie monster restrained gobbling apples cézanne still life.“it became clear 10 years mounting exhibitions much time, effort money sunk short-lived result,” mr. katz told new york times 1984.typically, said, investments, legacy exhibitions catalog.“the logical extension fleeting experience,” said, “is film, long shelf life huge audience.”mr. katz considered serious student high school entered college contemplating career journalism theater.he appeared plays college performed sock-puppet shows children weekends, abandoned thoughts theatrical career found minor speech impediment described, without elaborating, “an unfortunate onstage experience” performing ibsen play.his epiphany 90-minute standing-room-only lecture without notes columbia art historian meyer schapiro “connections made like many synapses firing — everything psychoanalysis religion politics semiotics,” mr. katz wrote autobiography, “the exhibitionist: living museums, loving museums” (2016).“those 90 minutes sealed deal,” wrote. “i would study art history archaeology.”karl l. katz — son said middle initial stand anything — born oct. 22, 1929, brooklyn maurice katz, salesman, former rose leibovitz, active jewish zionist causes.a yeshiva student, graduated midwood high school brooklyn muddling way long island university older brother suggested transfer columbia’s school general studies, reorganized undergraduate college world war ii accommodate returning veterans.he earned bachelor’s degree art history semitic studies master’s fine arts archaeology columbia. completed doctoral thesis early hebrew manuscripts yemen never fulfilled language requirement doctorate; said could bring learn german soon holocaust.in addition son, mr. katz, lived manhattan, survived wife, former elizabeth segal, married 1978, brother, elihu.mr. katz began career recruited 1953 educator met exhibition “from land bible.” went israel archaeologist hired curator national bezalel museum, forerunner israel museum, collaborated teddy kollek, mayor jerusalem.after 13 years israel, returned new york 1969 become director jewish museum, sought reconcile liturgical agenda contemporary art.he left 1971 rejoin met chairman special projects, job held 1980. directed museum’s office film television 1991, founded muse.among documentaries company produced “degenerate art” (1993), exhibition commissioned hitler denigrate modern art; “ai weiwei: never sorry” (2012), chinese artist activist; “herb & dorothy” (2008), art collectors herbert dorothy vogel.in early 1970s, jewish museum presented exhibition curated photographer cornell capa, mr. katz persuaded mr. capa international center photography needed museum house collection. opened 1974 former mansion fifth avenue.asked 1997 times draw many professional incarnations define art, mr. katz replied: “people look art checklist; label sometimes important work art.“my sense looking art like conversation,” continued. “if it’s visual it’s visceral it’s communicative, it’s work art.”
nominator denied access, ‘1984’ ineligible tonys year’s broadway production “1984” ineligible tony awards production refused allow journalist jose antonio vargas, member nominating committee, see play.the play’s lead producer, scott rudin, explain mr. vargas denied access, neither mr. rudin mr. vargas immediately offered comment. another lead producer, sonia friedman, said, “i don’t comment matter disappointed outcome.”the tony awards administration committee made unusual decision disqualify “1984” meeting thursday. awards rules require producers invite members tony nominating committee — currently 49 — performance.“it determined elements required eligibility fulfilled,” awards administrators said statement friday. “both production committee discussed matter private. parties involved necessarily agree outcome, parties agree issue handled properly.”a tonys spokeswoman would confirm mr. vargas denied access play, several theater industry leaders confirmed excluded nominator. last season, first tony nominator, recused voting.mr. vargas prominent immigration-rights advocate 2011, writing new york times magazine, acknowledged undocumented immigrant.in 2010, wrote critically “the social network,” movie founding facebook co-produced mr. rudin.a spokesman mr. rudin denied article — described movie “a simplistic take complex character masquerading important film” — anything mr. vargas denied access see “1984,” declined offer explanation.the play, adapted directed robert icke duncan macmillan novel george orwell, ran may 18 oct. 8. cast included tom sturridge, olivia wilde reed birney, tony winner “the humans.”the show cost $4 million mount, according documents file securities exchange commission. opened mixed reviews, grossed $6.9 million 21 weeks, playing audiences ranged 57 percent 90 percent full. total, seen 112,232 people, according broadway league.
democrats celebrate wins, queens republicans close upset amid democratic electoral wave swept new york beyond tuesday, one incumbent democrat restive corner residential queens found cast ashore.elizabeth s. crowley, two-term city council member descends powerful queens political family, remains locked city’s contest still close call. race, may decided next week earliest, outlier uncertainty raw emotions brought fore.several dynamics propelled ms. crowley’s republican opponent, robert f. holden, longstanding civic association leader city college professor, verge upset victory: anger city housing homeless neighborhood hotels; fear eventual closing rikers island would mean local jail; virulent dislike mayor bill de blasio.to complicate matters, mr. holden actually registered democrat.as thursday, unofficial results still showing mr. holden 133 votes 20,000 cast, neither side declared victory. hundreds absentee paper ballots could swing vote could counted next week.“the paper ballots there, optimistic am,” ms. crowley said telephone interview thursday.mr. holden, 66, lifelong democrat said long ago voted george mcgovern recently bernie sanders, first challenged ms. crowley democratic primary september.it first political race mr. holden, centrist, even conservative politician older democratic sort. channeled anger mr. de blasio present many neighborhoods, especially among white residents less dense areas city, seized upon local discontent homeless policy helped lead ouster long-serving state assemblywoman, margaret markey, democratic primary 2016.“he’s unpopular; didn’t poll find out,” mr. holden said mayor. “i’m conservative issues, progressive others,” said, adding resistance housing homeless local hotels new shelter city “tried shove throats” animated desire get race.mr. de blasio, asked mr. holden postelection news conference wednesday, said “understand democrats run republicans.”“if run republican donald trump’s america, bought whole label,” mayor said. “i don’t know guy, i’ll try work him, signed something troubling book.”told mr. de blasio’s comments, mr. holden said, “i’ve spoken many times yet wants label trump supporter.” mr. holden, head juniper park civic association community board member, said two spoken mr. de blasio public advocate.“he labels you,” said. “i go best candidate. nobody tell hillary clinton better candidate bernie sanders.”council district 30 borders brooklyn south includes neighborhoods maspeth, glendale, middle village, ridgewood, woodside woodhaven — mostly middle class enclaves single family homes small apartment buildings white conservative surrounding areas.ms. crowley broke long republican hold first council seat 2008. kept 2013. council, active criminal justice reform, particularly rikers island, supportive idea closing facility — stance caused problems campaign.“i think scare tactics end,” said. “that want put jail community, didn’t fight de blasio hard enough homeless shelter. wasn’t independent, completely untrue.”ms. crowley benefited party support race: cousin, representative joseph crowley, powerful democratic leader queens; parents served city council. lose, would second time vaunted queens machine — seen influential looming fight become city council speaker — failed defend incumbent area.“i really believe liz everything could possibly win race headwinds flying strong,” said councilman rory lancman, fellow queens democrat whose staff helped ms. crowley’s campaign.ms. crowley outpolled mayor district election day 15 percent, according campaign.after mr. holden lost primary, county republican leaders decided offer vacant line. already spot lines reform conservative parties, indication views shared democratic candidates city.“he moderate conservative view things,” said joann ariola, new head queens county republican party. “bob holden long history republican party supporting republican candidates,” added. “he saw district turning negative.”eric ulrich, republican councilman queens prevailed election tuesday despite facing democratic challenger backed ms. crowley, said mr. holden’s strength could easily foreseen, kind words incumbent.“she missed many people city council,” mr. ulrich said. “she force reckoned with. think ineffective. rubbed people wrong way.”when told mr. ulrich’s comments, ms. crowley said, “it’s unfortunate eric thinks way. ton support colleagues still holding hope we’re going pull off.”
remembering ‘lost battalion,’ 99 years later actor stephen lang knew going threaded way central park. lost, neither world war army unit talking about, unit became known “lost battalion,” 77th division 307th infantry.what lost — lost public consciousness, anyway — awareness lost battalion’s against-all-odds battle 99 years ago. mr. lang working rebuilding awareness, one performance time.the lost battalion — outnumbered, outmaneuvered outguessed — cut american forces along western front. also hit friendly fire stunned german flamethrowers. captain badly wounded leaned rifles crutches continued give orders single surviving machine-gunner.the casualties almost unfathomable: time reinforcements finally arrived, 107 soldiers killed, 190 wounded 63 missing. little third unit, 194 original 554 soldiers, escaped unhurt.the commander awarded medal honor, intrigued mr. lang professional past: early 2000s, adapted oral histories medal honor recipients book “beyond glory.” performed show military installations broadway, among places.mr. lang said began thinking piece world war “because that’s criteria medal began solidify, war didn’t know much about.”rounding corner stepping world war memorial grove park, mr. lang said story lost battalion complicated numbers suggested. maintained, example, lost battalion’s commander never said words made men famous.mr. lang, tony-nominated actor starred james cameron’s film “avatar,” knows adapted story lost battalion “his dark land,” show perform symphony space 7:30 p.m. saturday, anniversary holiday began armistice day marking end world war i. actor james naughton play damon runyon, quintessential new york reporter-turned-foreign correspondent who, mr. lang’s script, asks commander’s memorable line.“i contend given medal honor words never said, got tired denying,” mr. lang said.the words “go hell.” commander charles w. whittlesey, lawyer early 30s sent france september 1917.thirteen months later, 307th ordered break german lines part huge carefully planned american offensive. one account operation reported “this general john j. pershing’s all-out effort show world united states first army could win war christmas.”whittlesey charge harold holzer, director roosevelt house public policy institute hunter college, called unit “unruly polyglot new yorkers chinese, italian, irish jewish extraction, whittlesey championed.” “his dark land” performed roosevelt house wednesday.“the night mustered out, drank brawled street,” said mr. holzer, introduce “his dark land” saturday, “and cohered.”and war over, remembered — first.the memorial grove began single oak 1921, according central park conservancy. mid-1930s, 26 trees planted area. sixteen represented company 307th regiment, lost battalion drawn. trees dedicated soldiers belonged fraternal organization knights pythias.the conservancy said grove vandalized 1960, 11 commemorative plaques trees disappeared. pythians replaced single monument 1961.hurricane sandy damage 2012, pounding eight trees badly taken out. recently, paths infrastructure around memorial — irrigation drainage systems lighting — rebuilt.this setting monday mr. lang described encounter popularized “go hell” remark.the germans sent american soldier captured, private named lowell hollingshead, message offering end carnage whittlesey would surrender. newspapers, mr. lang maintains, supplied rather colorful language “no.”in fact, mr. lang said, whittlesey never replied germans.what whittlesey said considered germans’ message recorded, mr. lang asserted “go hell” sound like him. american artillery fire rained whittlesey’s unit coordinates jumbled, whittlesey sent message included two sentences prolix “go hell” punchy: “our artillery dropping barrage directly us. heaven’s sake stop it.”after war, whittlesey pallbearer dedication new tomb unknown soldier arlington national cemetery armistice day. accounts, whittlesey seemed uncomfortable day. two weeks later, thanksgiving day, boarded ship havana.after dinner, excused apparently jumped overboard. never seen again; body never found.“they called ‘battle fatigue’ days,” mr. lang said.
radhika jones, times books editor, said next vanity fair editor dramatic changing guard, radhika jones, editorial director books department new york times former top editor time magazine, expected named next editor vanity fair, according two people knowledge decision.condé nast, publishes vanity fair, plans make announcement soon monday.ms. jones, 44, succeed 68-year-old graydon carter, said september stepping glossy general-interest magazine 25-year run helm.a spokeswoman condé nast declined comment. times also declined comment.in anointing ms. jones, holds degrees harvard college columbia university, vanity fair placed future hands woman — first since tina brown served magazine’s editor 1984 1992 — cultivated kind sophistication prestige condé nast long valued.mr. carter’s announcement two months ago set race inherit throne ignited speculation across media industry. magazine business lost much luster recent years, vanity fair largely retained glow, editorship remains one coveted business.robert sauerberg, chief executive condé nast, anna wintour, editor-in-chief vogue condé nast’s artistic director, oversaw search. david remnick, editor new yorker, also played significant role selecting mr. carter’s successor. mr. carter involved decision-making process.with selection ms. jones, condé nast made clear still respects print, even looks digital future less tied magazines. joining books desk times last year, ms. jones deputy managing editor time magazine, oversaw time 100 issue. paris review, literary magazine known writers work interviews, managing editor. also worked grand street, artforum moscow times.her deep familiarity celebrity, journalism, art publishing probably big draws condé nast, whose editors often expected mingle among influential people disparate spheres covered publications.while vanity fair, mr. carter became celebrity right, wielding influence beyond world print magazines. party host, restaurateur film producer, became known figure washington, new york hollywood. leadership, vanity fair’s annual post-oscar party became big, glittering affair attended almost everyone statuette. also served major advertisement brand.but state magazine industry changed dramatically since mr. carter became vanity fair’s editor summer 1992, financial challenges spared condé nast. company, expects bring $100 million less revenue year 2016, slashed budgets titles middle laying 80 employees. earlier month, said reducing print frequency titles like gq glamour shutting print edition teen vogue completely.whereas magazine editors yore could swan city town cars take long martini lunches, must devise ways magazines survive fraught climate. instead devoting much working hours holding hands temperamental writers overseeing designs print pages, help organize gatherings coordinate video production.in time industry-wide belt-tightening, curtains seem drawing age celebrity editor, commanded seven-figure salaries generous expense accounts.other top candidates job included janice min, breathed life us weekly hollywood reporter; anne fulenwider, editor chief marie claire; andrew ross sorkin, columnist editor times, founder dealbook franchise; mike hogan, digital director vanity fair.
20 years financial turmoil, columnist’s last shot past 20 years so, business columnist new york times, i’ve front-row seat bull bear markets, scandals, crises management mischief.but leaving times, last shot fair game. seems fitting moment look back what’s changed hasn’t financial world, better worse.in addition string garden-variety banking business scandals, four seismic financial events occurred time columnist: collapse long-term capital management hedge fund 1998, bursting dot-com bubble 2000, accounting scandals enron 2001 worldcom 2002, mother — mortgage debacle — 2008. one brought world economies precipice wiped lehman brothers raft troubled banks.that many episodes financial tumult two decades seem like lot.some turmoil generated positive change. accounting scandals, example, much rarer since enron worldcom shook financial markets. one reason: 2002 federal law, known sarbanes-oxley, requiring top executives attest accuracy companies’ financial statements.“sarbanes-oxley came effect 15 years ago, fewer accounting scandals accountability,” said jack ciesielski, founder r. g. associates publisher analyst’s accounting observer, accounting research service. “those accounting scandals crisis thankful for; got it, law passed, works.”it’s bad mortgage crisis six years later didn’t result heightened accountability.here’s another sign progress: believe not, corporate directors active oversight used be. egregious board practices chummy appointments less common.nell minow corporate governance expert vice chairwoman valueedge advisors, firm guides institutional shareholders reducing risk portfolios. rattling cages governance field since mid-1980s says she’s seen definite improvement boardroom makeup practices.“when started field, o. j. simpson five boards, including audit committee infinity broadcasting,” recalled interview. “and another company, c.e.o.’s father compensation committee. we’ve come long way.”that’s say problems arising sleepy clubby boards eradicated. “exhibit executive compensation,” ms. minow said. “the first c.e.o. pay package ever complained $11 million. fact gone completely berserk shows boards still long way be.”a case point: thomas m. rutledge, head charter communications, received $98 million 2016, according equilar, compensation analytics company. yes, he’s outlier, average chief executive compensation 200 large public companies last year almost $20 million, equilar said.something else hasn’t changed decades analyst investor reliance companies’ creative earnings calculations. figures, conform generally accepted accounting practices, typically exclude costs companies incur operations. costs include stock awards given executives employees merger expenses. excluding makes company’s results look dazzling otherwise would.inventive earnings calculations, prevalent today, popular lead-up dot-com crash. back then, analysts valued companies based imaginative, nonfinancial metrics like number page views retail website received percentage “engaged shoppers” visiting site. didn’t end well, even many companies exhibited highly engaged shoppers millions views.“i find ironic gaap much better long time, analysts disdain it,” mr. ciesielski said, referring generally accepted accounting principles. “they blindly accept methodology management gives them. folks prefer darkness, guess.”to sure, embracing management’s preferred financial figures isn’t perilous stock prices rocketing. bull markets cover multitude sins, all. dot-com episode showed, genuine earnings growth — kind companies take bank — becomes crucial underpinning share prices turn down. that’s true financial metrics characterized “earnings bad stuff.”my search truths wall street elsewhere years sometimes raised hackles. that’s good. wasn’t job part company’s spin machine.but responses subjects could get little kooky. favorite example occurred early 2000s, involved major wall street firm.i written arbitration case investor client brought firm. firm prevailed matter, general counsel convened dinner celebrate.in phone conversation, firm’s general counsel told menu dinner featured photograph me, placed inside red circle slash though it. general counsel told scoured web right picture. menu garnered lots laughs attendees, added.i never find celebration cost firm’s shareholders.incidents like that, however, relatively rare. far outweighed appreciation readers expressed.“you must continue work skewering people customs capitalist society abuse process,” reader jackson, miss., wrote 2001. others expressed thanks “a good consistent questioner,” writing “financially illiterate,” pushing make rules investing fair firm.and loved receiving christmas card reader maryland couple years ago simply said: “thank telling truth!”believe me, privilege.
men work wonder overstepped women, san francisco — confusing season america’s working men, conversation around workplace harassment reveals nationwide epidemic — many men wonder involved ignored signs.consider owen cunningham, director san francisco’s kbm-hogue design firm. looks toward annual corporate holiday party days, shudders.“cancel holiday party,” said mr. cunningham, 37, adding means figured men women interact. said considered progressive gender issues thinking behavior seen past: “what flirting o.k.? ever taking advantage meager power had? start wonder.”across white-collar workplaces, rank-and-file men awakening prevalence sexual harassment assault high-profile cases including harvey weinstein, mark halperin louis c.k. cases helped inspire #metoo campaign, thousands women posted harassment experiences social media. many men like think treat women equals workplace starting look back behavior wondering they, too, overstepped work — overt subtle ways would get included #metoo post.“i don’t think i’ve done anything wrong,” said nick matthews, 42, works pwc, formerly pricewaterhousecoopers, lives san francisco. “but anything i’ve done interpreted another way?”in response, men forming all-male text groups companies industries brainstorm harassment issues. said planned lot careful interacting women felt line friendliness sexual harassment easy cross. others struggling reconcile behaviors could happen even among men believe equal rights.joel milton, 30, entrepreneur denver baker technologies, platform cannabis dispensaries, said recently decided careful corporate offsites seeing swell #metoo claims.“when hear someone team pool party, i’ll say, ‘hey, maybe managers there,’” mr. milton said, relaying type information likely covered many companies’ employment manuals.he added harassment something thought much before, considering behavior more. “like, ever anything?” said.many companies long mandated anti-harassment training educate men women issue. report last year, united states equal employment opportunity commission found much training ineffective workplace harassment widely underreported.jonathan segal, lawyer commission’s harassment task force, said fielding odd questions men behave work. fund-raiser last month palm beach, fla., men asked permissible hug woman boundaries drawn.mr. segal said explained men context mattered pretending gray zone collegial friendliness sexual assault absurd. instance, told them, hugging old friend different going behind co-worker desk typing.“if someone can’t understand that, maybe shouldn’t hugging,” said.mr. segal, runs anti-harassment training, expanding part program called safe mentoring, teaches men mentor younger women without harassing them. recent session, male supervisor talked extra ticket sporting event feeling could invite male colleague; mr. segal went invite female colleague without sexually harassing her.“the answer harassment cannot avoiding women,” said.still, workers said starting follow “the pence rule,” formerly known billy graham rule, evangelical preacher, named vice president mike pence. mr. pence said eat alone women wife attend event without alcohol served.a conservative writer, sean davis, wrote lot men media effectively heeding pence rule along. said always followed coastal, liberal america finally waking useful avoiding private meetings women could be. former white house adviser sebastian gorka also made argument.“what we’re seeing men backing away role try encourage play, actively mentoring sponsoring women workplace,” said al harris, running workplace equality programs writing topic chicago partner, andie kramer, many years. “there’s apprehension part men they’re going falsely accused sexual harassment.”not everyone practicing avoidance. men said best route ask female co-workers directly feel harassed. pat lencioni, founder table group lafayette, calif., executive coaching companies around issues like diversity, said asked women office worried harassment.“i came office said, ‘hey, guys, i’ve got question you: sexual harassment stuff, things, guys ever worry it’s going happen here?’” mr. lencioni, 52, recalled. “and like: ‘no, know you. know are.’”he said thought approach could adopted broadly.other men said talked workplace harassment anyone already knew needed know. “this liberal town,” said philip rontell, real estate agent walnut creek, calif., added supported #metoo campaign. “we already know stuff.”when men want talk workplace harassment, said, don’t know go. “i don’t know conversations allowed had,” said ryan ellis, 33, sales manager e-commerce company santa monica, calif.austin gilbert, recruiter san francisco company gametime, said industry also deal men talking online chat rooms work, said could “bury” hide toxic comments. company closed several “high school in-group” type exclusionary work chats years, worries more.“we policy telling employees we’re free review electronic communications,” mr. gilbert, 31, said. “but that’s typically anyone’s job responsibility small company.” women empowered call inappropriate behavior, companies predict boozy after-work events holidays could combustible year. many companies used parties thursday friday evenings, moving late monday tuesday afternoons, said sarah freedman, vice president operations 23 layers, event planner new york whose clients include google west elm.open bars replaced game zones. one client recently asked extremely watered-down “john daly” party’s signature drink, ms. freeman found strange probably wise.after-work events “the front line” comes harassment, companies want “more safety precautions” now, said.
honey nut cheerios healthy? look inside box bowl honey nut cheerios recently. it’d awhile. regular cheerios thing. sometimes finish box faster kids find straying side cupboard.honey nut america’s best-selling breakfast cereal, comfortable margin. roughly 151 million boxes containers various sizes sold past year, well ahead second best-selling breakfast cereal, frosted flakes, according iri, chicago based market research firm.i idea. thing could think ate first time years incredibly sweet is. looked back box could see why. three top six ingredients sweeteners: sugar, brown sugar honey.previously, assumed honey nut cheerios slightly sweeter cheerios, learn things finally get around reading back box. actually nine times much sugar plain cheerios, per serving. environmental working group analysis number popular cereals — report linked sugary cereals “nation’s childhood obesity epidemic” — put honey nut cheerios’s sugar content second fruity pebbles. group found one cup cereal sugar three chips ahoy! cookies.i asked general mills this, period several days. come phone, responded series communiqués.“you mentioned three top six ingredients honey nut cheerios sugar, brown sugar honey,” mike siemienas, spokesman company, wrote statement. “what didn’t mention number one ingredient oats. singularly focused one ingredient — sugar — irresponsible doesn’t help consumers look total nutrition offered.”honey nut cheerios debuted 1979. cereal’s forebear, cheerios, originally called cheerioats, born 1941 favorable nutrition profile. plain version low sugar, “and you’re getting oat fiber help lower cholesterol modestly,” said bonnie liebman, director nutrition center science public interest.unfortunately, makes contrast spinoffs difficult. include far sugary options like pumpkin spice cheerios apple cinnamon cheerios. newest offering, chocolate peanut butter cheerios, looks like sugar flakes it, actually lower sugar content honey nut cheerios.“the company capitalized good name original,” ms. liebman said. “we’ve saying years honey nut cheerios sugar honey salt nuts, fact it’s got nuts all, it’s got almond flavor.”the center quarreled general mills before. sued company health claims made another cheerios offshoot, cheerios protein.general mills refers cereals like honey nut cheerios “presweetened” — putting sugar, brown sugar honey cereal don’t to. back 2009, company made news announcing initiative already underway drop sugar figure single digits cereals marketed children. last decade so, honey nut cheerios fallen nine grams sugars per serving, 11. seems.i undertook review highly sensitive corporate documents. that, mean looked pictures old cereal boxes ebay, apparently there’s market vintage, flattened cereal boxes. found box 2003 showed serving size honey nut cheerios one cup, weighing 30 grams 11 grams sugars. today, serving three-quarters cup, 28 grams, nine grams sugars.the serving size regular cheerios remains one cup. honey nut cheerios still one cup serving size, sugar content would double digits.general mills said little happened, when.“there several reasons changes serving size may occur including recipe improvements may change density cereal regulation changes,” mr. siemienas wrote.serving sizes regulated food drug administration, change cereal’s density changes. appears point last 10 15 years, general mills tweaked ingredients honey nut cheerios way lowered overall weight per serving, effect helping lower stated sugar content. smoke mirrors; percentage sugar decreased slightly well, though rounding makes difficult say much.“they’ve tested tested tested try find much sugar take without affecting sales,” said marion nestle, emerita professor nutrition food studies new york university. “they must surely cut point.”she said “you really want” kids “eating whole grain, higher fiber cereal.”speaking myself, eat lot cereal three-quarters cup. poured amount bowl. looked sad. small. appetizer’s worth cheerios.don’t worry, general mills. i’ll continue eat cheerios. difficult conversation 12-year-old recently. broke news honey nut would returning cupboard. we’d sticking regular cheerios.“can pour honey it?” asked.he joking. think.
forming picture new philanthropist makes philanthropist? attributes many, new study shows.gordon gund, whose investment firm owned several sports teams, blind age 30. 78, mr. gund spent last four decades raising money research stop reverse degenerative forms blindness. finally seems close fulfilling dream.judy jordan, 56, created well-known california winemaker, j vineyards & winery. selling large wine producer years ago, started new winery, time, using business help agricultural families worked make successful.sapphira goradia, 34, executive director sole employee parents’ charitable entity, vijay marie goradia foundation. focused making grants educational health organizations india determined measure impact.the three different interests age, philanthropists. raises question: way gauge choices, motivations influences philanthropist?the philanthropy workshop, educational networking organization, undertook yearlong study determine high-net-worth philanthropist looks like. report, released tuesday, called “going beyond giving: perspectives philanthropic practices high ultra-high net worth donors.” data group collected robust, really revealed hard put diverse group easily understandable boxes.“there tendency see segment philanthropists based age, gender, level experience, see might behave differently,” said tracy mack parker, senior adviser philanthropy workshop. “our learning survey many ways, no, can’t necessarily put distinct buckets: next generation operate, inherited wealth operate, entrepreneurs operate.”nearly 80 percent survey respondents net worth greater $10 million, quarter $100 million. rachel cardone, philanthropic consultant one report’s authors, said one common thread people’s philanthropic approaches thought became philanthropists.“it mind-set going philanthropy,” ms. cardone said. “if view philanthropy like, ‘oh, similar regular day job, i’m going apply social impact,’ natural fit comfort talk it.”but philanthropists struggle identify wealthy.“you think philanthropist rockefellers carnegies,” ms. goradia said. “i don’t actually think philanthropist, it’s capital i’m deploying. don’t really think parents philanthropists, either. it’s paying forward.”ms. goradia’s family foundation, whose assets come father’s plastics petrochemical business, gave $2 million last year.“let’s clear: it’s downright strange,” said william perrin, trustee several foundations whose wife heiress sainsbury supermarket fortune britain. “there nothing normal philanthropist. it’s conversation pub friends.”his wife, fran perrin, whose family one philanthropic britain, said grew philanthropic family, felt comfortable around term. comfort equate competency received inheritance outright age 18.“i never clue it,” said ms. perrin, 39. “i stumbled around years, knowing tackle it.”she infrastructure family’s foundations, totaling 18, wasn’t 31 took course offered philanthropy workshop, helped think differently giving.“i stopped making grants year said wasn’t going know i’m doing,” said.that feeling unease around giving fairly common. ms. jordan, bought first vineyard age 27 help father, winemaker tom jordan, said focused running business raising children sold j vineyards e. & j. gallo 2015.ms. jordan said early mistakes omission. “when running j, gave sorts programs,” said. “but didn’t know right questions ask.”this lack guidance lent another common thread: two-thirds people report said sought philanthropic education, formal programs, peer networks conferences.they always confident how, wealthy donors knew large-scale giving: motivated cause close also one felt could make difference.larry leibowitz, former chief operating officer nyse euronext, gives animal welfare women’s rights organizations, wall street background led ask could supply better information philanthropists.“i figured could make space inch efficient, could make difference,” mr. leibowitz said.after working issue alone, teamed jeff raikes, former chief executive bill melinda gates foundation, backed giving compass, aims clearinghouse information various causes.“a lot is, fit personal preferences charity like rest life?” said. philanthropy “just murky area it’s inefficient, isn’t good information people embarrassed ask questions.”philanthropists like talk “impact” giving measure it. unless you’re delivering something quantifiable — like vaccines bed nets — measuring impact difficult without staff large foundation.matthew bowcock, made fortune technology focused security, said gave specifically achieve impact grants arts organizations, including working disadvantaged neighborhoods prisons. defines word way.“you take local group support, say, disability support group needs $10,000 year,” mr. bowcock said. “it’s going impact quality life, it’s going sustainable. compassionate point view, it’s important do.”not every philanthropist focuses impact, though. ms. perrin said shied away asking grant recipients developing world much information, preferring spend time listening them.“everyone obsessed impact,” said. “charities struggling get information. it’s caring charity it.”and impact take long time appear. mr. gund waiting 46 years initial philanthropic grants find treatments genetic blindness pay off. 1971, helped create foundation fighting blindness, helping hire board experts raise $725 million years.now, spark therapeutics, foundation backed, verge winning approval luxturna, first gene therapy treatment inherited blindness.“of things motivate make proud, it’s investment time,” mr. gund said. “my money, i’m happy pleased i’ve ability that. it’s really worked lot dedicated people bring point.”
win battle sexes pay (hint: isn’t simple.) billie jean king united states open singles tennis title 1972, reward meager $10,000. ilie năstase, male counterpart, $25,000.ms. king fought hard equal rights and, tennis court, won. 1973, men women received prizes open. still can’t said tennis tournaments, despite ill-natured male grousing recently, equal pay still rule united states open, least.that reality overall labor market, however, women still earn less men considerable confusion reasons gender earnings gap — done eliminate it.fighting eradicate discriminatory employment practices absolutely needed, course. i’ve spent many years studying subject, research shows unequal treatment hiring work setting real may reflected unequal pay.yet also true time demands many jobs explain much pay difference, finding sobering implications. eliminating gender earnings gap require changes millions households thousands individual workplaces.even defining gender earnings gap isn’t simple: cannot reduced single number, though often expressed way. according commonly used measure adopted united states census bureau, women 2016 earned 81 cents dollar earned men, working full-time.this definition focuses annual income individual median — middle — income distribution men women. another valid option focus mean, average, earnings. measured way, earnings gap even greater. many measures.the gap larger among educated people, example, varies according occupation, often big ways. among college graduates, far larger business, finance legal careers science technology jobs. health care, larger self-employment high (think dentists) much lower professionals mainly employees (think pharmacists).what’s more, gap statistic changes life worker. typically, it’s small formal education ends employment begins, increases age. point, increases women marry begin bearing children.using data shows women earn 81 cents dollar earned men, careers recent college graduates start, gap much smaller: 92 cents male dollar. time college-educated women 40 years old, earn 73 cents.similar patterns appear using data women men earned master’s degrees business administration. immediately graduation, women earn 92 cents male dollar. decade later earn 57 cents.correcting time hours work reduces difference earnings men women doesn’t eliminate it.on face it, looks like proof disparate treatment. may seem understandable man works hours woman, earns more. compensation per hour greater, given qualifications? again, problem isn’t simple.the data shows women disproportionately seek jobs — including full-time jobs — likely mesh family responsibilities, which, part, still greater women men. so, research shows, women tend prefer jobs offer flexibility: ability shift hours work rearrange shifts accommodate emergencies home.such jobs tend predictable, fewer on-call hours less exposure weekend evening obligations. advantages negative consequence: lower earnings per hour, even number hours worked same.is unfair? maybe. isn’t always open-and-shut case. companies point flexibility often expensive — jobs others.certain job characteristics big impact gender earnings gap. looked closely issues, including extent workers are:■ subject strict deadlines time pressure■ expected direct contact workers clients■ instructed develop cooperative working relationships■ assigned work highly specific projects■ unable independently determine tasks goalsoccupations lower level characteristics (like jobs science technology) show smaller gaps, corrected hours work. occupations higher level (like finance law) greater gaps. men’s earnings tend surge fewer substitutes given worker, job must done teams clients demand specific lawyers, accountants, consultants financial advisers. differences account half gender earnings gap.these findings provide nuance explaining gap widens age greater women children. whatever changes already taken place american society, duty caring children — family members — still weighs heavily women. thought moving family-friendly nation would eliminate gap, think again. several nations, including sweden denmark, “motherhood penalty” earnings exists, even though nations generous family policies, including paid family leave subsidized child care.such considerations bring us sensitive area: domestic arrangements home, especially among couples children. personal questions. theory, gender earnings equality possible parents take amount time enjoy flexibility work.yet isn’t easy accomplish world, exists now: individual families make choices may incur high costs. classic economic standpoint, one spouse partner earn working less flexible hours, family, couple would earn money parent job, partner accepts flexible one. man certainly flexible member household — though typically not. decisions need made couple couple.reorganizing workplace — complicated undertaking — would help diminish gap. would also narrowed burdens family life shouldered equitably.in sum, gap mainly upshot two separate related forces: workplaces pay per hour work longer uncertain hours, households women assumed disproportionately large responsibilities.equality court requires level playing field home market. many battles ahead. unfortunately, need fought several levels.
california looks republican tax measures sees payback san francisco — tax plan hurtling congress fast-moving blur cuts increases designed keep republicans track pass bill without democratic votes. california, several prized deductions risk eliminated, people suspect greater design play.“it really feel like said, ‘what california?’” said sam moss, executive director mission housing, affordable-housing developer san francisco.mr. moss worried threat array tax credits tax-exempt bonds widely used build low-cost housing state severe housing shortage.and it’s housing incentives. tax bills filled measures democrats, republicans, say would disproportionate damaging impact overwhelmingly democratic state portrayed center resistance president trump.in sharpest example, state officials estimated six million california taxpayers — one every three — take deduction state local taxes. one main deductions republicans moving eliminate severely restrict. bills would also put ceiling deduction mortgage interest used four million california taxpayers, according state department finance.the bills would phase ability deduct personal casualty losses wildfires earthquakes — constant threat vast parts state — keep deduction damage hurricanes floods like florida texas year.“i would like think isn’t directly aimed california, it’s hard think congress sights set golden state,” said state senator mike mcguire, democrat whose district includes areas ravaged recent wildfires north. “no matter it’s earthquake, wildfire hurricane, families able deduct damage.”california overwhelmingly democratic. hillary clinton outpolled mr. trump nearly four million votes here, democrats control houses legislature. party leaders forefront denouncing mr. trump’s policies issues environment health care.there long concern state’s confrontational stance toward trump administration could invite retribution washington.gov. jerry brown, democrat, said interview rush republicans pass bill made impossible judge much legislation could hurt state.“i can’t penetrate inner motivations republican leadership,” mr. brown said. “but say something odd rushing gigantic tax proposal congress without serious transparency debate. primarily, seems, reward corporate donors.”“i don’t like way govern democracy,” said.representative darrell issa, whose san diego county district among vulnerable republican seats state, said would oppose bill.“i cannot endorse changes may make tremendous burden felt california taxpayers even worse,” said. “tax reform lower taxes taxpayers — regardless live.”but far, mr. issa’s opposition appears singular within state’s republican delegation, least among offer comment. representative kevin mccarthy, majority leader, represents central valley district, strongly backed effort. said parts bill — increasing standard deduction eliminating alternative minimum tax — would help california taxpayers were, said, saddled high state taxes.state senator jeff stone, republican, also endorsed effort, saying would bring welcome relief california taxpayers.“the democrats keep raising taxes california,” said. “it’s time federal government stops letting hook giving cover overly complicated federal tax system.”on democratic side, anthony rendon, assembly speaker, called bill “anti-california,” said surprised california republicans spoken it, especially contrast republicans states, like new york, would also hurt.“it’s large extent political suicide lot folks,” said, “and don’t seem care.”like everything tax measure, affordable-housing credits moving target. house version eliminated lot things, senate version restored them. republican legislators shape bill delivers big cut corporate taxes remaining within deficit limits allow party-line vote, houses consistently looked reducing credits deductions whose ripple effects would minimal country profound taxpayers live, generally, democratic states.for instance, house senate bills either reduce repeal deduction state income, sales property taxes. california’s top personal income-tax rate nation’s highest.the house bill lowered limit mortgage-interest deduction new home purchases $1 million debt $500,000. move would affect fewer 3 percent mortgage holders nationally, four metropolitan areas united states half homes priced $500,000. four california. (the senate bill keeps limit $1 million.)also, state benefits itemized deductions, bills limit, many cases discourage, increasing standard deduction. economic models suggest bulk millions families would face tax increases legislation itemize deductions.more third californians itemize deductions, according data compiled pew charitable trusts; average benefit deductions nearly $37,000 2015.california state whose voters would lose deductions tax bill. according analysis tax foundation, independent think tank, six states — california, new york, new jersey, illinois, texas pennsylvania — claim half total amount deducted state local taxes.
alibaba’s singles day sales hit new record $25.3 billion singles day — frenzied annual celebration consumption commerce china’s much larger version black friday — began protest sorts valentine’s day, propelled college students 1990s.the event’s date, written numerically 11/11, associated unattached singles, known “bare sticks.”this year’s shopping festival entered new territory, blazing past $1 billion within two minutes holiday, starting midnight saturday. end day, sales hit new record $25.3 billion, 40 percent higher sales singles day 2016.singles day inextricably linked alibaba, chinese e-commerce leviathan recent years turned holiday online — occasionally brick-and-mortar — mercantile extravaganza. routinely eclipses amazon’s yearly prime day promotional event.in july, prime day generated estimated $1 billion revenue 30-hour sale window, resulting amazon called “biggest day ever.”the event evolved cultural phenomenon. friday night, alibaba hosted lavish gala shanghai, directed one producers behind 2016 academy awards. celebrities nicole kidman, pharrell williams maria sharapova helped count moments 60,000 participating global brands released singles day deals shoppers.one offer, chongqing-based online alcohol brand jiang xiao bai, allowed 33 fast-moving customers make single payment 11,111 yuan, $1,673, lifetime supply grain liquor known baijiu.singles day, largely powered alibaba’s tmall marketplace, test company’s logistics network. company promised delivery within hour certain products and, advance shopping festival, converted nearly 100,000 stores across china “smart stores” capable processing payment using facial recognition advanced technologies.
farhad mike’s week tech: get ready robot cars friday, farhad manjoo mike isaac, technology reporters new york times, review week’s news, offering analysis maybe joke two important developments tech industry. want newsletter inbox? sign here.mike: howdy, farhad! it’s week halloween, means i’ve got christmas music repeat head, i’m trying hardest tune thinking terrible songs. never knew could mash burl ives skrillex seamlessly!farhad: wow, mike, idea festive. pictured spending holidays scowling tree, listening nothing 1990s grunge.mike: no, that’s spend easter.mike: anyway, let’s start waymo, oddly named self-driving car offshoot spun google, owned alphabet. (ugh, mouthful.) waymo milestone week: company started testing self-driving cars public roads arizona without human drivers behind wheel, significant milestone world autonomous vehicles.typically, self-driving cars engineer person sitting driver’s seat hands hovering wheel, ready take moment’s notice case something goes wrong. that’s “drove” uber’s self-driving car last year, that’s pretty much case autonomous vehicles tested public roads.so even though it’s happening arizona, big deal. waymo clearly leading pack race produce self-driving cars, makes sense google’s multiyear head start space.would comfortable carted around self-driving car? was, perhaps i’m used since it’s one main topics write about.farhad: live right near waymo’s headquarters, old hat me. see company’s cars — including old panda-shaped ones lack steering wheel — every morning commute. i’d problem riding one, hope arizonans know it’s annoying share road robot cars.they’re slow! follow speed limit, take ages changing lanes frustrating habit obeying every single rule road. ugh, live little, robot car — stop suggestion, kind law.mike: yes, well, don’t throw away driver’s license quite yet. maybe do.mike: moving on, bigger piece telecom media news. week, dealbook team scooped department justice trump administration pushing time warner at&t sell turner broadcasting company, owns cnn, directv condition negotiated merger long works.it’s huge ask, hard see it’s politically motivated. well know, president trump fan cnn. also, i’m curious know legal grounds d.o.j. would use block merger size.farhad: move makes complicated politics. one hand, many liberals growing wary ever-larger corporations might agree federal government putting stringent conditions deal. yet it’s hard tell conditions legitimate, they’re imposed please president repeatedly vowed go businesses haven’t toed line.i wonder sort thing affects liberals’ efforts police big tech. speech week, senator al franken called greater regulations tech giants. trump suggested affinity stance; campaign, trump often said washington post, owned amazon’s c.e.o., jeff bezos, covering critically amazon worried trump would start antitrust proceedings company.now, imagine something like happens — would left cheer trump, would side amazon? truly wonder.mike: right, well, saw well last huge time warner merger went, let’s hope one goes better!oh, wanted note fantastic story new york times magazine week, basically opacity facebook’s algorithms advertising effective targeting small groups users start-ups spending cash nowhere else. it’s like russia 2016 election, brands!farhad: speaking facebook, startling admission week sean parker, napster co-founder former facebook executive (played justin timberlake “the social network”). interview axios’s mike allen, parker said he’d become “conscientious objector” social media, said built addict us all.“it probably interferes productivity weird ways,” said. “god knows it’s children’s brains.”watch this. people silicon valley worried long-term psychological effects digital age. worry especially, mike.mike: busy looking twitter.actually, last thing wanted note: will.i.am, hip-hop artist self-styled tech evangelist, raised another $100 million venture capital. started wearables gadgets, pivoted work chatbots devices like amazon’s alexa google home.so think? will.i.am next steve jobs? raising venture capital actually require anything hodgepodge vague ideas series pivots? even capitalism anymore?farhad: really don’t get it. live world anyone who’s made constantly gets showered money regardless whether they’re anything useful. mike, get cash in?mike: never. anyway, see next week!farhad: bye!farhad manjoo writes weekly technology column called state art. mike isaac covers facebook, uber twitter. follow twitter here: @fmanjoo @mikeisaac
fashion’s interest alternative fabrics keeps growing high-end fashion sportswear brands taking growing interest recycled alternative fabrics made unusual materials like mushrooms, oranges even proteins inspired spider-web dna — concern environment. recognizing cool materials tomorrow could something people want buy today.over next 12 months, brands expected announce partnerships businesses figured ways make leather without cows, silk without worms, fur without animals fabrics recycled waste. already year, salvatore ferragamo selling scarves made orange fibers stella mccartney produced two outfits made spider-inspired silk.ms. mccartney, vegan designer relatively lone fashion voice field sustainable fabrics recent years, provided golden dress laboratory-made silk museum modern art’s exhibition “item: fashion modern?” also presented chocolate-brown bodysuit trousers backstage spring 2018 show last month paris fashion week.“they completely perfected silk; literally silk slightly different texture silk normally use,” said claire bergkamp, head sustainability ethical trade stella mccartney brand, adding finished testing fiber possible applications. said brand, signed long-term partnership agreement bolt threads, california company developed microsilk material, expected start selling clothing made next year two.as new technology early stage development, initial production fabrics continues limited finished products, costly. bolt, example, introduced lottery march sell first spider-inspired silk neckties, $314 each.and work private public scientific research institutions taken account.silk produced laboratory, example, would exist without breakthroughs last 30 years enabled scientists perfect ways edit replicate dna living organisms.after studying spiders’ dna webs, bolt threads’ engineers developed similar proteins injected yeast sugar subjected proprietary fermentation process. resulting liquid silk turned fiber wet-spinning process creates strands knitted fabric.rivals, using similar technology different production methods, produced marketable products yet either. japanese company spiber agreement north face, american activewear company (in 2016, developed moon parka prototype). amsilk, german company, partnered adidas products identify say expected go sale next year.adidas, however, producing sneakers made plastics recovered beaches oceanfront communities, part product line developed partnership activist anti-plastic group parley oceans. (ms. mccartney, adidas collaborator, provided designs.)recycled fruit waste another promising substance creation alternative fabrics. italian company orange fiber provided material ferragamo’s capsule scarf collection. ananas anam, based royal college art london, uses pineapple leaf fibers create nonwoven leatherlike material called piñatex brands like edun, sustainable fashion label owned lvmh moët hennessy louis vuitton, creating items it.and mycelium, rootlike fiber mushrooms, processed leather substitute mycoworks, san francisco start-up. specialists say material, looks like suede, needs tested durability.in addition bio-fabricated materials, stella mccartney brand founding partner, luxury group kering, investing ways recycle fashion items use fewer resources, water. ms. mccartney’s falabella go bags made recycled polyester econyl, nylon produced recycled fishing nets, carpets waste, manufactured italian company aquafil.in recent years, several venture capital firms supported development alternative fabrics, especially biofuels, including corn algae, failed live initial promise.one latest high-profile investors russian entrepreneur miroslava duma, founder fashion lifestyle website buro 24/7.in may, ms. duma introduced fashion tech lab, venture funds develops new technologies sustainable fashion wearable technologies. $50 million funding advisory services carmen busquets, e-commerce investor, diane von furstenberg. orange fiber vitro labs, company developing lab-grown variations fur leather stem cells, among organization’s initial beneficiaries.suzanne lee, almost 20 years experience fashion technology, said, “it feels like much innovation terms new materials past five years, sustainability main driver.” chief creative officer modern meadow, new jersey-based company specializes laboratory-grown bio-fabricated leather materials.ms. lee said that, shortages world war ii drove development fossil fuel-based materials like lycra polyester, prospect limits natural fibers leather pushing fashion industry find alternatives.modern meadow developed yeast that, mixed sugar, produces collagen purified, processed tanned create material look feel similar leather.the company said planning unveil first commercial product next year partnered one major luxury player, declined reveal now.but, reflecting luxury ambitions, company retained advisory services three fashion veterans: mimma viglezio, formerly executive vice president global communications gucci group; françois kress, left chief executive position carolina herrera january; anna bakst, formerly group president shoes accessories michael kors.similarly, fashion’s historic houses pioneering field.chanel, known putting healthy dose pressure suppliers create new yarns fabrics every season, working paper yarns researching use 3-d printing ready-to-wear clothing.the house, said first, presented suits fall 2015 couture show made material produced 3-d printer sintered, compressed, powder embellished embroidery braid lesage, one chanel’s métiers d’art houses.“karl lagerfeld says things unimaginable,” said hubert barrère, creative director lesage. “creativity tune time.”
lottery need help. no, really! winning lottery bolt amazing luck. whether luck lasts depends whether lottery winners fritter away unexpected largess manage achieve financial security.when alcario carmen castellano $141 million california decade ago, fortunate enough financial professional family advise them. one thing learned early say no, said mr. castellano, 83.people constantly calling san jose home 2001, many even knocked door, trying persuade lend give money. mr. castellano said long ago, acquaintance asked personal loan. “that’s goal,” quickly told person. “we don’t that.”within months winning, couple buy secluded house feel safe. said, joking, also “because jaguar gave wife would looked place old neighborhood.”the couple spend indulgences, like new cars, quickly set spending priority, giving latino community organizations.winners display joyful exuberance first, often must deal unanticipated stress. psychologist stephen goldbart coined phrase — sudden wealth syndrome — describe symptoms, include feeling isolated friends, guilt good fortune extreme fear losing newly gained money.prize winners face adjustments financial status shifts radically. extravagant spending, bad investments perils facing lottery winners common enough state lotteries take pains advise winners seek professional accounting financial advice.“nobody teaches large amount money,” said john hagerty, spokesman virginia lottery. “we give win $100,000 video packet information help prepare new financial lives.”michelle robert sutherland oregon, $7 million state’s lottery last june, lost large portion retirement savings 2008 economic meltdown, lost money later opened restaurant. local economy stalled close business.the couple took lottery winnings lump sum turned financial adviser knew. bought “nice, comfortable house mansion” outside springfield, ore., said ms. sutherland, 54. “to title hands amazing feeling.”she said able spend money family, set substantial college funds three grandchildren.“it easy fall buying everyone things want,” said, “but want keep way it’s been.”winners say plan works everyone.“there one way win,” said amanda spiller, 32, claimed $1 million virginia lottery prize september 2015. 7-year-old daughter wanted buy helicopter yacht, ms. spiller said laugh, “i put foot down.”ms. spiller, self-employed, relied local accountant advice took lump sum, $688,000 taxes. paid student loans, invested mutual fund began nurture passions. one website stop eating like jerk, features videos topics like make better food choices.“i definitely better quality life now,” said. “i’d never airplane i’ve done lot traveling taken daughter places never able go.”and given idea winning again, added. “i’m still playing lottery every week. $2,000 last year, i’m sure i’m going win invest $30 every week.”major prize winners like castellanos distribute good fortune foundations. couple volunteered local latino organizations win, 16 years ago set castellano family foundation. several years, ms. castellano, 78, worked administrative secretary three decades nearby san jose city college, read evaluated every application funding.“i making list organizations soon al told won,” said. “by december, wrote first foundation check.”the couple learned philanthropy attending conferences, consulting major donors hiring consultant. foundation focuses arts education groups, well leadership diversity issues.“it’s say don’t fun,” said. “we grand celebration 50th wedding anniversary. won, means help others, hasn’t changed us.“we still friends,” continued. “the foundation helped us develop spending ideas, develop intuition handle people don’t know.”michael moriarty, 56, semiretired bartender bronx, said using windfall “build little kingdom.” $7 million year new york scratch-off ticket, bought property florida keys family — three daughters — rent.“i love florida it’s laid-back way life, wanted something could investment also used family,” said. “and think it’s good investment property.”he gave $100,000 local boys & girls club, brother president, treated daughters gifts, noting “have gotten fill wants, needs.” still routinely puts flowers mother’s grave bought new jeep, new harley-davidson modestly priced boat well two fishing reels.“people say don’t worry money,” said. “well, that’s worry now.”
hasbro said make bid toy rival mattel hasbro made bid acquire chief rival mattel, according people briefed discussions, move would consolidate world’s toy industry.hasbro made takeover approach recent months, people said, mattel struggled revive faded brands. unclear whether hasbro offered terms deal whether discussions taken place, said people, insisted anonymity talks private.the toy world, like broader retail industry, upended surge e-commerce intensifying battle grab attention children, spending time playing tablets smartphones.it first time two toy giants involved potential takeover. two decades ago, mattel sought take hasbro, hasbro rejected hostile bid, saying merger would never pass antitrust hurdles. regulatory issues could also factor future combination two companies, industry’s dominant toymakers.for much year, talk across toy industry possible tie-up two companies. mattel’s stock fallen 52 percent past year, market value $5 billion.hasbro shares increased 8 percent year ago, bringing market value $11.4 billion.representatives hasbro mattel declined comment takeover approach, first reported friday night wall street journal.the bankruptcy filing toys “r” us september also pummeled toy suppliers like mattel. toys “r” us owes mattel least $135 million, according court documents, twice much owes hasbro.last month, mattel said bankruptcy weighed third-quarter results. company’s sales fell 13 percent year ago. mattel’s chief executive, margo georgiadis, called results “clearly disappointing” suspended company’s quarterly dividend.despite recent financial pressure, mattel still produces valuable toy brands like hot wheels fisher-price, industry analysts say make ripe takeover hasbro.this month, hasbro announced sealed exclusive deal paramount pictures collaborate producing films based hasbro brands. two companies already collaborated movies based toys g.i. joe transformers.
dodge jerry jones, owners speed roger goodell’s contract n.f.l. owners negotiating contract extension league commissioner, roger goodell, accelerating work, according several people familiar matter, quell insurgent, unusually public threat jerry jones, dallas cowboys’ owner, scuttle deal.the owners, agreed may extend commissioner’s contract, pushing complete terms matter weeks end public battle jones, began campaign undermine extension commissioner suspended star running back cowboys domestic violence accusation.the committee owners negotiating contract meeting monday discuss, among things, finish extension longer political volleyball. owners committee want extension completed couple weeks, say wait next owners’ meeting mid-december.jones, powerful owner increasingly tried influence league matters, emerged erratic insurgent among owners prize order typically settle differences amicably behind closed doors.owners already unsettled tumult players protesting racism kneeling national anthem slew injuries star players, mention slip television ratings.people familiar contract negotiations, spoke condition anonymity involve internal league matters, said package 80 percent 90 percent completed, handful minor details yet finished.as nonvoting member compensation committee, jones, though, continued lobby committee working pay package.last week, new york times reported told six owners committee hired lawyer david boies prepared take legal action league change goodell’s deal.jones insisted goodell’s deal needs restructured account poor way navigated league recent turmoil, pay performance-based bonuses. jones threatened sue members committee — includes owners chiefs, falcons, giants, patriots, steelers texans — removed nonvoting member.jones fully aware of, agreement with, committee’s efforts restructure contract, according people familiar committee’s work. aug. 9, goodell traveled summer home maine new york meet compensation committee patroon, restaurant blocks league’s headquarters midtown manhattan.the mood comfortable. two owners, robert k. kraft new england patriots arthur blank atlanta falcons, joked how, walked restaurant together, fans stopped say surprised together teams faced super bowl february.in private room, owners discussed structure goodell’s new deal finer points commissioner wanted added. jones new york, listening speaker phone. “we got good place night,” one person involved dinner said. “jerry board it.”two days later, everything changed goodell suspended cowboys’ star running back, ezekiel elliott, six games based accusation domestic violence former girlfriend. addition railing decision questioning way commissioner staff handled investigation, jones began lobby compensation committee owners pause alter goodell’s new pay deal.on radio show friday, jones denied effort block contract extension anything elliott, saying goodell’s performance lately.in october, 32 owners met new york, blank, chairman committee, briefed structure deal. little opposition. several weeks ago, jones held conference call dozen owners compensation committee discuss goodell’s extension.when failed turn tide extension, jones spoke conference call last week compensation committee threatened take legal action. stunned, committee took extraordinary step removing jones committee, lawyers since handled communication committee jones.jones’s threat appears galvanized committee goodell conclude last items new contract. goodell currently paid around $30 million year, including set rolling bonuses effect make compensation guaranteed.in new package, goodell would receive roughly amount, certain performance targets met.after owners voted unanimously may extend goodell’s contract five years, compensation committee created new structure 88 percent commissioner’s compensation would based array metrics tied league’s financial performance. many metrics would overseen owners committees, broadening number people would decide much commissioner would make.goodell, sought defuse controversy players protesting racism kneeling national anthem, devoted time recent days working final details controversy, too, might subside.
venezuelan debt crisis widens, power company default venezuela showed new signs financial unraveling friday, state electricity company declared default.the announcement country’s first bond default came three days government begin talks investors refinance restructure half $120 billion debt.“this first drizzle huge thunderstorm,” said jose l. valera, international energy lawyer houston office mayer brown law firm. “the whole country venezuela bankrupt.”the electricity company, corpoelec, based caracas, unable make $28 million payment $650 million bond. bond originally issued electricidad de caracas nationalized corpoelec subsidiary decade ago.the default announced notice wilmington trust bondholders complained received payment coupon due oct. 10 grace period ended thursday.venezuela state-owned enterprises — including oil company petróleos de venezuela, known pdvsa — missed roughly $350 million interest payments last month. grace period many end next days.“there going many different debtors sovereign different state-owned companies,” mr. valera said, “and going defaulting time.”president nicolás maduro announced last week government would refinance restructure $63 billion bonds, invited investors meet government committee led vice president. uncertain many investors take part, since united states sanctions restrict negotiation purchases new bonds american-regulated financial institutions.monday could decisive day venezuela’s credit crisis.while president maduro’s committee offer restructuring proposals, international swaps derivatives association, panel formed derivatives industry, meet discuss venezuelan debt situation.the panel discuss whether late partial payments $1.2 billion due last week pdvsa constituted “credit event” could prompt bondholders organize seek payment. creditors could pursue legal action confiscate venezuelan assets abroad, oil tankers even refineries owned pdvsa subsidiary citgo.
review: two contrasting views silicon valley’s influence pervasive influence silicon valley economy, culture politics subject worthy close study. two important new books released week offer startlingly different approaches conclusions complex issues. contrasting epigraphs begin works perfectly reflect respective perspectives.noam cohen, former new york times columnist, opens polemic, “the know-it-alls: rise silicon valley political powerhouse social wrecking ball” (new press), quote “the wizard oz.” mr. cohen, “the self-proclaimed geniuses claiming serve mankind” dominate digital economy far dangerous benevolent wizard overwhelming “collateral damage” wrought “these leaders pursue dreams centralizing relationships — personal, economic, political.” antidote clear present danger, “the know-it-alls” seeks “demystify origins harsh market-based values pumped silicon valley, seem irresistible.” mr. cohen’s telling, historic ground zero pernicious ideology fueled undue influence tech elite stanford university.another former new york times columnist, leslie berlin, become project historian silicon valley archives stanford. book, “troublemakers: silicon valley’s coming age” (simon & schuster) opens advertising copy iconic 1997 apple commercial perfectly captures silicon valley’s conception itself. “here’s crazy ones. misfits. rebels. troublemakers,” begins concluding, “because people crazy enough think change world ones do.”to fair, conflict visions less stark seems two authors focused different time periods. “troublemakers” covers “the generational handoff” happened late 1960s early ’80s “as pioneers semiconductor industry passed baton younger up-and-comers.” mr. cohen’s ire primarily targets “who helped nurture world wide web prosperity 1990s turning investing.”one sympathetic benign view technology industry appreciate ms. berlin’s deeply researched dramatic narrative silicon valley’s early years “troublemakers.” tell story, selects seven lesser-known influential figures follow closely throughout period. include first woman take technology company public, first chairman apple, man played critical roles government create internet industry commercialize personal computer. names likely unfamiliar, meticulously told stories permit reader gain nuanced understanding emergence broader technology ecosystem enabled silicon valley thrive.nuance word comes mind reading mr. cohen’s attack silicon valley’s powers be. first two chapters devoted key figures history stanford’s administration computer science department, emphasizing university’s willingness trade academic rigor financial gain institutional sympathy eugenics early 1900s and, recently, extreme libertarianism. underlying themes, mr. cohen’s view, underpin “the stanford model integrating hacker entrepreneur.” model reflected staking william hewlett david packard 1930s, establishing stanford industrial park 1950s obtaining $336 million payout google stock return granting exclusive pagerank license.it unholy alliance hacker entrepreneur values mr. cohen rails balance book. although pauses handful pages speak microsoft — “if know-it-alls’ values represent merger hacker’s radical individualism entrepreneur’s greed, one man considered forefather: bill gates” — believes negative ramifications “only fully flourished widespread adoption world wide web starting late 1990s.” beginning marc andreessen, developed first commercialized web browser, netscape navigator, “the know-it-alls” proceeds attack character every boldfaced name among tech billionaires. found guilty either always promoting insidious tech dogma places constraints ability disrupt status quo financial gain — case idealistic founders google facebook — along way “seduced power money offered venture capitalists.”the history underpins overarching thesis feels selective less rigorous. niels reimers, founder stanford’s office technology licensing one seven key industry figures profiled detail “troublemakers,” even mentioned “the-know-it-alls.” given complex negotiations required secure university approval, seems like significant oversight book whose thesis hinges part stanford’s supposed unthinking commercialism. statements like computer science “still something obscure discipline late 1980s” don’t hold scrutiny. 1990, almost 800 computer science degree programs offered colleges universities, enrolling tens thousands students.although mr. cohen identified legitimately disturbing aspects tech culture, becomes repetitive, tone unnecessarily conspiratorial. also ignores facts contradict assertions. mr. cohen complains “paypal mafia,” former employees “provided cash, counsel contacts.” mr. cohen finds “something jarring group self-styled survival fittest free marketeers committing strategy collective risk mutual support.”when wikipedia founder jimmy wales profiled contrast libertarian fanaticism raw commercialism know-it-alls, inability raise funding used reinforce point: “wales partners rich friends lean tough times.” narrative makes clear, however, problem flawed business model, lack access paypal mafia venture investors. similarly, mr. cohen directly confront irony story wikipedia’s ultimate success made possible free-riding google’s powerful — view morally suspect — search engine.the tech industry earned takedown book documents self-interested justifications number policies clearly public interest. track record matters including cybersecurity, gender equality privacy shameful. brief profiles “the know-it alls,” sprinkled gratuitous ad hominem observations (for example, mr. cohen writes paypal responsible “releasing wild self-satisfied peter thiel, one-man wrecking crew sowing chaos american society day”), get job done.given profound impact lives technology industry apparent flaws current culture, books leave reader wondering go here. “the know-it-alls” suggests “europe provides model” relying extensive regulation but, given absence european tech giants note, seems like throwing baby bath water. although compelling history “troublemakers” provides number tantalizing clues things got track, focus book. ms. berlin whitewash aspects even valley’s early years foreshadow profound cultural issues emerge industry’s middle age, writing, “it takes certain kind audacity think launch company, much less invent industry — audacity often veers arrogance.” doesn’t go way explore implications, either.when founding fairchild semiconductor discussed, william shockley mentioned passing, ms. berlin notes “had yet fully descended paranoia eugenic fervor would later mar reputation.” fact, paranoia abusiveness least already well known and, given qualities recurring contemporary industry themes, would worth examining.similarly, it’s noted key venture capitalist valentine’s success willingness overlook “deviant” behavior, discussion downside letting hacker culture run wild might made sense.silicon valley’s history still written. books important reminders whether ultimately story happy ending function collective willingness closely examine sector’s origins better understand sources innovation destructive aspects culture allowed fester long.
student borrowers, time start repaying loans along holiday cards friends family members, recent college graduates probably receive notices student loan servicers mail coming weeks.most student loans grace periods — spans time graduation repayment must begin — six months. students graduated spring, time start repaying debt.nationally, student debt totaled $1.34 trillion midyear, according federal reserve bank new york. average debt per borrower 2016 ranged low $20,000 utah $36,000 new hampshire, according nonprofit project student debt.spring graduates typically get notices loan servicer — company processes payments manages student’s loans — following november, payments beginning december. (happy holidays!)the letter servicer include details like payment amount, due date send check make payments online.if received sort notice now, best contact loan servicer, said diane cheng, associate research director institute college access success, nonprofit organization. keep servicer apprised whereabouts, said. even received official notice, still responsible repaying loan.if don’t know servicer is, check national student loan data system find company handles loans borrowed federal government. (you probably already federal student aid id, not, need create one log check loans.)loans banks private lenders, rather federal government, tracked federal database. may able find checking credit report. contact financial aid office alma mater, said persis yu, director student loan borrower assistance project national consumer law center.unless tell servicer otherwise, enrolled standard 10-year repayment plan. worried cannot afford payments, federal government programs offering affordable monthly payments. details available department education consumer financial protection bureau.the department education’s tool estimating repayment help compare payments would different options. users contact loan servicer directly, however, confirm eligibility various options, ms. cheng said.recently, questions raised federal government’s public service loan forgiveness program, intended allow people working teaching, nonprofit, social services government jobs loans canceled 10 years. borrowers, particularly joined program soon enacted decade ago, finding loans thought would forgiven might be, complex requirements.but program remains option current borrowers, long correct type jobs, loans payment plans qualify. “certainly reasons cautious,” said adam minsky, lawyer specializing student loans, “but program still much existence.”ms. cheng advises borrowers submit certification form, provided department education, document employed qualified job payments properly credited, remain track debt forgiven.here questions answers repaying student loans:are grace periods loans?one type federal loan, known perkins loan, nine-month grace period. loans, like federal plus loans made parents, grace period. repayment typically starts soon funds distributed.grace periods private loans may vary, six-month grace periods typical, said martha holler, spokeswoman private student loan lender sallie mae. company’s website offers suggestions organizing loan documents help ensure keep payments. one recommendation: create spreadsheet listing loans contact information servicers.what complaint student loan servicer?you file complaint consumer financial protection bureau department education.are discounts available loan payments?typically, knock quarter percentage point — 0.25 percent — monthly payment, federal private loans, agree money automatically debited bank account.
russia warns crackdown u.s. media, including cnn latest round tit-for-tat sparring united states russia, authorities moscow warned friday coming crackdown american media outlets operate russia, including cnn.the move explicitly intended retaliation apparent american censure rt, state-run news organization formerly known russia today, american intelligence sources accused used propaganda outlet.officials president vladimir v. putin’s government said cnn, along federally funded voice america radio liberty, might designated foreign agents, essentially identifying hostile intelligence outfits.in united states, designation foreign agent typically assigned foreign lobbying groups. russia’s suggestion might assign label foreign news organizations like cnn — potentially restricting distribution operation — likely raise alarm bells among press freedom groups.on thursday, rt agreed register justice department foreign agent united states, despite vehement objections network’s leadership. representatives rt denied russian authorities dictate coverage. addition, russian authorities previously warned american censure rt would met response.tensions international media sphere rising time ties russian authorities trump campaign subject investigation special counsel robert s. mueller iii.during 2016 presidential campaign, rt frequently portrayed united states nation disarray, often sensational youtube videos racked millions views. rt network cited intelligence dossier potential foreign intrusions election.on friday, president trump mr. putin attended asia-pacific economic cooperation forum danang, vietnam. men hold formal talks, shook hands exchanged greetings posing photograph forum’s gala dinner.it remained unclear friday whether russia’s talk crackdown posed imminent threat operations american news outlets there, saber rattling. russian officials see cnn’s international network useful vehicle reach foreign audiences.the american authorities publicly acknowledged request rt register foreign agent. defiant statement thursday, rt’s editor chief, margarita simonyan, denounced justice department said network would register avoid freezing bank accounts disclosure personal information employees.“the demand discriminative; contradicts democracy freedom speech principles,” ms. simonyan wrote rt’s website. “it deprives us fair competition international channels, registered foreign agents.”ms. simonyan said planned sue justice department matter.during presidential race, rt’s american cable network attracted eight million viewers week, assigned reporters cover major party conventions campaign rallies. among on-air personalities american tv veterans like larry king ed schultz.rt particular influence youtube, 2.2 million subscribers rivaled totals major american news outlets.the russian minister communications, nikolai nikoforov, said week treatment rt united states result undeserved animosity toward russian interests.“it yet another manifestation general anti-russian hysteria” united states, mr. nikoforov told journalists, “rather constructive legal dialogue.”the justice department cnn declined comment.amanda bennett, director voice america, said statement: “the voice america independent news source required law accurate, objective comprehensive. speculate steps foreign governments might take regard journalistic work.”
court blocks berkshire museum’s sale rockwell works art massachusetts appeals court friday blocked much-anticipated auction next week art berkshire museum, including two paintings norman rockwell.those works — including one titled “shuffleton’s barbershop,” estimated price $20 million $30 million — among seven pittsfield, mass., museum scheduled offered sale monday sotheby’s new york effort raise money museum considers essential survival.the sale opposed two groups plaintiffs, including rockwell’s sons, well office massachusetts attorney general, said would violate various trusts restrictions related works must handled. attorney general, maura healey, seeking additional time examine museum’s plan, asked court friday injunction halting sale.the court granted request, saying allowing sale created risk stopping it. ruling prohibits museum “from selling, auctioning otherwise disposing artworks listed auction.”the injunction expire dec. 11, court added attorney general’s office may move extend it.sotheby’s described berkshire museum works “superb collection” “among highlights” american art sale monday.in addition “shuffleton’s barbershop,” sotheby’s said rockwell created cover saturday evening post 1950, auction include rockwell’s “blacksmith’s boy — heel toe (shaftsbury blacksmith shop),” estimated price $7 million $10 million.among museum works offered monday “the white dress” thomas wilmer dewing, “hunter winter wood” george henry durrie “connecticut river valley, claremont, new hampshire” albert bierstadt.last summer, financially strapped museum announced planned sale 40 works, including impressionist modern art, contemporary art, 19th-century european paintings, american art chinese art. museum said proceeds needed build endowment, renovate building expand programming create “heightened emphasis science history.”officials museum sotheby’s said disappointed decision.elizabeth mcgraw, president museum’s board trustees called court decision “setback” institution neighbors.“the auction held promise addressing museum’s serious financial difficulties proceed without works, plans future delayed,” said written statement. “until process resolves, continue every day: bring passion art, science discovery community.”the auction house confirmed monday’s auction would go forward rest 70 works slated sale.“we never doubted board trustees acted good faith well within legal rights,” sotheby’s said statement, “and remain confident prevail plans ensure bright future berkshire museum support community pittsfield western massachusetts.”michael b. keating, lawyer rockwell family others seeking stop sale, said clients fully supported decision blocked auction museum items “the irreparable harm would occur paintings sold.”museum organizations condemned museum’s deaccessioning plan, saying violated guidelines sale art subsidize operating expenses instead using proceeds enhance maintain collection.rockwell’s sons group museum members sued separately stop sale. judge john a. agostini berkshire superior court found lacked legal standing. judge agostini also denied request attorney general block sale.the state’s lawyers told appeals court friday museum looking sell nearly valuable art. would violate number trusts, said, including described promise rockwell works would remain permanent collection another pledge works slated auction would never leave pittsfield.“this sale unprecedented terms number, value prominence works proposed, centrality works museum’s collection, process museum employed select dispose deaccessioned items,” attorney general’s office said filing friday.the lower court described attorney general’s office “reluctant warrior,” whose objections included specific details would review planned sale. noted delay would “considerable financial consequences” museum. find museum violated charitable trusts come possession art.the attorney general’s office countered filing friday museum could sell works future, items disposed auction would difficult get back. said museum abided pressing mission — preserve charitable purpose — whatever financial hurdles, relationship museums donors would damaged sale.
egon schiele still racy some, nearly 100 years death vienna — it’s nearly century since austrian painter egon schiele died, art — charged erotic energy usually showing little skin — still ruffles feathers.a series advertisements showing schiele’s graphically contorted bodies (with explicitly rendered private parts) didn’t make past critical eyes selling advertising space britain germany — anti-nudity restrictions facebook. artworks covered up.both schiele mentor, painter gustav klimt, died 1918, year world war austro-hungarian empire ended. 2018, museums vienna mount yearlong series exhibitions events mark centennial: “stairway klimt” begins vienna’s kunsthistorisches museum feb. 13; “egon schiele, expression lyricism” opens leopold museum feb. 23.vienna’s tourist board also working campaign celebrating big-draw exhibitions, viennese modernism general. campaign ran unusual glitch — office’s originally planned posters, featuring large schiele nudes, turned racy.according vienna tourist board spokeswoman, helena hartlauer, transport london rejected original images, citing trepidation depicting genitals public space.ms. hartlauer said modified advertisements pixelated genitals also declined. ultimately approved versions using artworks (schiele’s “seated male nude (self-portrait),” 1910, “girl orange stockings,” 1914, paintings artist, leopold museum collection), certain bits covered banner.the banner reads: “sorry, 100 years old still daring today.” modified images view bus shelters cologne building facades hamburg, and, since week, tube stops london.“we wondered, much viennese modernism bearable today?” said norbert kettner, chief executive vienna tourist board. apparently british germans, less austrians anticipated.in ways, no-nude attitudes abroad blessing disguise vienna’s campaign — since early november tourist board highlighting images public ads hashtag #derkunstihrefreiheit (#toartitsfreedom english) social media.the hashtag comes slogan “to every age art, art freedom,” still visible german facade viennese secession, exhibition venue co-founded klimt 1897 still operating today autonomous artist-run institution. controversy certainly echoes discussions took place schiele’s time. fin-de-siècle vienna, era dramatic shifts art society, many considered artist’s work pornographic. schiele’s first broader acceptance didn’t come early 1918 major exhibition secession — later year, artist succumbed spanish flu age 28.“we want show people far ahead time vienna protagonists really were,” mr. kettner said. “and also encourage audience scrutinize much really — hasn’t — changed terms openness attitudes society times.”
cyberattack casts long shadow equifax’s earnings equifax suffered new intrusion — profitability. costs relating consumer credit reporting agency’s major cyberattack helped knock earnings 27 percent third quarter year earlier. revenue also took big hit. likely biggest expenses — including long list unquantified legal exposures — yet rain down.the atlanta-based company, led interim chief executive, paulino barros, reported $87.5 million pretax expenses period related hack, allowed attackers extract information many 145.5 million consumers. expenses one-offs, others won’t be. company expects $75 million additional expenses quarter.that may tip iceberg. equifax one handful credit-scoring companies collect people’s data huge scale sell lenders, making almost systemically important. arguably means bar protecting data higher corporations. faces 240 class-action lawsuits north america, investigations who’s watchdogs, including securities exchange commission, britain’s financial conduct authority attorneys general 50 states. equifax says cannot yet estimate damages fines, likely both.although overall revenue third quarter, sales biggest division, handles american consumer credit reports, fell 3 percent. sharp turnaround 7 percent growth first half, considering breach made public sept. 7. give result, unit’s revenue last three weeks quarter would slump third expected, according breakingviews calculations. executives expect overall revenue decline 3 4 percent fourth quarter customers defer orders.investors lopped quarter equifax’s market capitalization since breach. that’s consistent sustained drop profit scale third quarter, doesn’t allow extended slide revenue big legal outlays. investors may sanguine.
senate plan could increase taxes middle-class workers washington — mitch mcconnell, senate majority leader, acknowledged friday republican tax plan might result tax hike working americans, saying “misspoke” days earlier said “nobody middle class going get tax increase” senate bill.“i misspoke that,” mr. mcconnell, kentucky republican, said interview friday new york times. “you can’t guarantee absolutely one sees tax increase, targeting levels income looking average levels average tax relief average taxpayer segments.”the senate bill unveiled thursday would raise taxes millions middle-class families, according preliminary new york times analysis. plan would also disproportionately benefit high earners corporations. still, middle-class earners would fare better senate proposal counterpart house, analysis found.the senate finance committee bill would, average, cut taxes people every income level. but, mr. mcconnell alluded revised remarks, benefits would vary widely within income brackets, depending specific circumstances individuals households, many would pay existing rules.republican lawmakers dash devise — pass — tax overhaul would mark significant achievement since taking control congress. president trump republican leaders outlined two main objectives rewrite: cutting taxes american businesses middle class. legislation reduces tax rates individuals businesses, eliminating tax breaks make lost revenues. meant accelerate economic growth increase wages workers.both house senate bills would cut corporate tax rate 20 percent 35 percent provide business tax benefits, ability immediately expense purchases equipment.the times analysis, using open-source software taxbrain, found roughly one-quarter families middle class would see taxes increase 2018, $1,000 average. 2026, share seeing increase would rise slightly, one-third, average increase would rise $1,600. majority middle-class families receive tax cut, average savings would $1,300 2018 $1,700 2026.the times analysis defines middle class broadly earning two-thirds twice median household income, $50,000 $160,000 per year family three. focus families, analysis excluded individual filers households headed people 65 older adjusted size household.under house bill, times found, half middle-class families would pay taxes 2026.the analysis seek calculate workers might benefit steep cut corporate tax rate, senate house bills would reduce 20 percent top rate 35 percent today, project bills might increase economic growth and, it, americans’ wages.on friday, independent tax foundation released analysis plan’s growth effects. projected senate bill would increase gross domestic product 3.7 percent next decade raise wages 2.9 percent across economy.for taxpayers earning $1 million year, senate bill offers limited upside downside house bill.the senate bill less likely house bill yield tax increases high-income americans, part cuts top marginal personal tax rate, house bill creates so-called “bubble rate” would actually raise taxes many high-salaried workers.the senate measure would also produce smaller average tax windfall high earners house version, part offering less generous benefits owners businesses known pass-throughs, organized corporations.under senate plan, “americans especially likely face tax increase smaller family, mostly wage income instead investment income, claim many deductions bill repeals, like state local taxes employee business expenses,” said lily batchelder, professor tax specialist new york university law school, worked economic policy obama administration. “they increasing taxes many middle class, concentrating tax cuts wealthy.”the senate bill appears much better wealthy somewhat wealthy. half families earning two three times median income — $160,000 $240,000 family three — would pay 2018 existing law. among richest families, earning $500,000 family three, nearly 90 percent would get tax cut.the findings come important caveat: senate bill, written, appears unable muster 60 votes needed avoid democratic filibuster, meaning republicans need amend comply budget reconciliation rules allow permit passage simple majority. changes could likely include putting expiration dates bill’s major provisions, could make final version bill look less favorable middle class, particularly later years.the times’s figures based analysis census bureau data using tax model open source policy center, washington research organization affiliated right-leaning american enterprise institute. analysis based publicly available data, actual tax records, may capture intricacies americans’ household finances.the senate bill differs sharply house version approach cutting taxes businesses. comes taxes individuals families, bills similar different. would double standard deduction eliminating raft deductions credits. would make child tax credit generous. would restructure federal income tax brackets impose lower marginal tax rates income levels, although senate approach, unlike house version, doesn’t eliminate two brackets entirely.the senate bill includes features would make plan favorable middle class. preserves popular tax deductions credits house bill initially would eliminated, makes child tax credit somewhat generous widely available. hand, senate bill, unlike house version, would eliminate deduction property taxes, could lead higher federal taxes homeowners areas high property tax rates expensive housing markets.aparna mathur, economist american enterprise institute, said senators could improve bill changes, expanding earned-income tax credit extending benefits child tax credit low-income taxpayers. “we clearly need help lowest-income families,” said. “at time, engage base broadening highest-income households, perhaps eliminating capping mortgage-interest deduction.”the times analysis found roughly one-fifth senate bill’s cuts 2018 would go families individuals earning $1 million more, close half would go people earning least $200,000. 10 million 15 million taxpayers earning less $100,000 year would pay existing law.families earning $1 million year would see after-tax income rise 1.7 percent 2018 compared would make current law, nearly triple gains enjoyed earning less $200,000.over all, senate bill would cut individual income taxes $30 billion 2018, $900 billion next decade, according congress’s nonpartisan joint committee taxation. people income groups would see tax cut, although cuts would modest lower earners.
gilbert rogin, 87, magazine editor writer droll fiction, dies gilbert rogin, enviable run writer droll short fiction new yorker building toward impressive career top editor sports illustrated magazines, died nov. 4 home westport, conn. 87.his death confirmed wife, jacqueline duvoisin, former photographer sports illustrated. specify cause, mr. rogin declining health years.talented idiosyncratic, mr. rogin managing editor sports illustrated five years beginning 1979, stretch magazine still dominant sports journalism espn fledgling.before that, though, seemed might way career fiction writer. new yorker published 30 stories beginning 1963, humorous tales often seemed least somewhat autobiographical, written several well-received books. 1980 roger angell, magazine’s fiction editor, rejected one submissions grounds — mr. rogin later told tale — repeating himself. stopped writing fiction entirely.“maybe knew i’d exhausted fiction vein,” told franz lidz, one former sports illustrated reporters, 2010 interview aarp magazine. “the idea always back mind. whatever reason, roger voiced opinion, literally couldn’t write fiction again. single word.”gilbert leslie rogin born nov. 14, 1929, brooklyn. father, robert, lawyer. mother, former lillian ruderman, actress who, name billie rudell, made several broadway appearances 1920s.mr. rogin grew manhattan graduated columbia college. 1951 began brief stint new yorker office gofer; assignment second day job bring suit clothes funeral home harold ross laid in. mr. ross, magazine’s founding editor, died.in 1955, two years army, mr. rogin joined sports illustrated, time inc. begun year before. job clip articles newspapers wire services filing magazine’s library, began writing almost immediately, soon reporter.he became known elegant phrasing carefully observed profiles figures like boxer floyd patterson basketball star bill russell. 2014, magazine commemorated 60th anniversary republishing 60 best articles, one mr. rogin among them: “12 days mast,” account participating sailing race california hawaii aboard 55-foot yawl. sailing fan, found experience underwhelming.“it numbing, embittering largely useless 12 days,” wrote. “there plot, suspense. progress lacking memorable incident passage hour hand across face clock. proved curving, erratic line shortest distance two points.”when assignment sports illustrated, mr. rogin began writing short fiction. new yorker published first rogin story, “ernest observes,” 1963, came regularly that, right “the hard parts” november 1978. appeared magazines.a story collection, “the fencing master,” came 1965, 1971 mr. rogin published first novel, “what happens next?” poet l. e. sissman, reviewing book new york times, called “a novel first importance.”a second novel, “preparations ascent,” thematically related first, came 1980. 2010 two novels reissued verse chorus press single volume. jay jennings, introduction republication, wrote similarities run much mr. rogin’s funny, understated fiction.“the protagonist,” mr. jennings wrote, “no matter name, (presumably autobiographical) middle-aged, jewish, manhattanite male, magazine writer eclectic intellectual interests eccentric habits.”as mr. rogin’s fiction, whose admirers included john updike, largely forgotten, mr. jennings speculated oversaturation might played part.“he writing apex market protagonists middle-aged, jewish, manhattanite male intellectuals/writers musers,” mr. jennings wrote. “the ur-text genre saul bellow’s ‘herzog’ (1964), cohorts mailer, malamud others variations theme.”it also certainly help mr. rogin abruptly abandoned fiction. story drew discouraging new yorker rejection back 1980, “my masterpieces,” eventually see light print, 2010, lowbrow reader published it. (it appears anthology “the lowbrow reader reader” well.) magazine also arranged mr. rogin reading event housing works bookstore soho.“gil accustomed upper echelon publishing — new yorker whatnot — was, publishing lost masterpiece idiot’s comedy zine,” jay ruttenberg, editor lowbrow reader, joined mr. jennings getting mr. rogin’s novels republished, said email. “but genuinely appreciative efforts visibly delighted attention.”mr. rogin’s shift away fiction coincided rise top editing spot sports illustrated, eccentric style alienated writers — dan jenkins one — embraced others.“he’d make changes touch light could nod appreciatively,” jerry kirshenbaum, writer editor magazine 30 years, wrote email. “you didn’t feel like fingers chopped way editors. gil, like manicure.”yet could also bellowing red-penciled rage, savvy staff members learned mr. rogin man sometimes strange routines disrupted.“between 2 3, everybody silent took nap,” mr. lidz said interview. breakfast always bumble bee tuna eaten can. would often edit bathroom adjacent office. traveled, assistant sure hotel pool suitable mr. rogin swim daily laps — kidney shapes allowed.an oft-told tale: once, road, mr. rogin turned swim find hotel pool drained; frantically swam mile’s worth laps anyway, racing declining water level.mr. rogin married ruth copes 1963. marriage ended divorce. survived wife, relationship 30 years; married 2010.his oddities aside, mr. rogin adept versatile enough that, 1984, time moved — despite reluctance — discover, struggling science magazine, helped stabilize. 1986 national magazine award general excellence. 1987 mr. rogin became corporate editor, no. 3 editing position time inc. empire.in capacity, helped quincy jones found vibe magazine 1993. volatile impatience seemed grow.“he felt guilty shot,” jason mcmanus, editor chief boss, said occasion mr. rogin’s retirement 1993. “i often made unhappy reluctance take summary action perceived outrage; hand, instantly taken gil’s advice, hardly present managing editors would still employed, would i.”
j.c. penney stock surges turnaround plan shows results j. c. penney surprised wall street friday, way investors come expect: beleaguered department store chain reported increase key measure sales greater anticipated, causing stock surge.the retailer said comparable sales — stores open least year — risen 1.7 percent third quarter compared period year earlier, double analysts’ expectations company’s forecast last month.the upswing j. c. penney’s first critical metric year, indication chain’s strategy purging excess inventory closing underperforming stores paying off. company’s $2.8 billion revenue quarter also exceeded expectations.j. c. penney stock 15.3 percent friday, $3.17 share. year ago, shares trading $9.the j. c. penney results departure recent earnings reports retailers raised concerns heading holiday shopping season. department stores, particular, struggled recapture foot traffic make innovations lose sales amazon online sellers.macy’s reported thursday comparable sales third quarter slipped 3.6 percent year year. kohl’s reported uptick same-store sales, quarterly profits missed expectations, result attributed impact hurricanes harvey irma hitting back-to-school season. comparable sales nordstrom’s, also announced thursday, also underwhelmed.not j. c. penney’s earnings picture positive. company reported net loss $128 million, 41 cents share, nearly doubling $67 million, 22 cents share, year earlier. adjusted one-time changes, loss 33 cents share, less analysts expected.the company managed expectations releasing earnings forecast oct. 27 — day end third quarter — predicted modest performance final report showed.but j. c. penney also taken “bold necessary steps” help “reset” major parts business, marvin ellison, chief executive, said earnings call friday.he said retailer used deep discounts clear slow-moving inventory women’s division expanded casual contemporary offerings, leading first positive same-store sales category 14 months.the company said february planned close many 140 stores — 14 percent total — months ahead.“the goal simple,” mr. ellison said. “we wanted flatten organization, streamline decision-making increase agility rapidly changing retail environment.”
power courts messing politics four newly senate-approved federal appellate judges move chambers seven months neil gorsuch joined supreme court, may seem vindicated conservatives swallowed qualms donald trump last year conviction that, whatever flaws, would save judiciary.yet “but courts” defense mr. trump says less courts: namely, importance swollen beyond constitutional recognition. branch government alexander hamilton dismissed “the least dangerous” overshadow every concern mr. trump, branch dangerous supposed be. originalists believe judges help tame judicial overreach credit mr. trump appointments. take notice fact “but courts” argument reveals judiciary outsize importance.conservatives always hold judiciary awe. judge robert bork, whose nomination supreme court senate rejected three decades ago, became martyr cause originalism believed courts’ demotion constitutional scheme inflated role assumed chief justice earl warren. using reasoning, mr. bork also criticized conservative judges earlier generations, like overruled economic reforms progressive era.now, however, constitutional matter, deference judiciary unites broad coalition right left, dispute how, whether, judiciary exercise far-reaching power overrule people’s elected representatives. liberals long argued favor extensive understanding individual rights, especially issues privacy, stance mr. bork’s judicial modesty correction. originalism diverse movement consists opponents supporters mr. trump’s election. many still support deferential judiciary, growing numbers seek control courts promote conservative ends.the “but courts” argument voting mr. trump percolated largely grass-roots quarters, among religious conservatives particular — one would expected hostility mr. trump. deflating power judiciary might help normalize politics help restore primacy considerations like policy character choice public officials.courts removed wide areas jurisdiction public’s authority, corroding ethic measured majority rule james madison described “the vital principle free constitution.” elected officials willing participants eager shed responsibility courts despite fact constitution imbues ample authority exercise themselves. president barack obama used executive authority provide subsidies health care house republicans said affordable care act authorize, retaliate legislatively, madison’s federalist 51 — paper based separation powers branch’s propensity defend turf — would predicted. instead, sued, essentially asking judiciary shelter rather sticking themselves. raised constitutional objections mr. obama’s executive order immigration, representative jim clyburn, democrat south carolina, dismissed disclaiming authority constitution placed hands: “that’s congress decide, that’s courts make decision.”that emphatically framers thought courts. madison wrote allowing unelected judges last word constitutional questions “was never intended, never proper” republic. hamilton emphasized judiciary power enforcement, judgment.but hamilton’s pseudonymous adversary brutus, opponent constitution, understood power judgment republic. observed constitution gave judges final word, without appeal, constitutional questions supreme court, asked crucial question: would officials unaccountable power behave? answer justices supreme court would “independent people, legislature, every power heaven. men placed situation generally soon feel independent heaven itself.”a simple thought experiment illustrates extent brutus right. within power president deliver majority congress, would conservatives set aside core principles executive decorum, morality economic freedom order attain control legislature? victory would transparently hollow would entail ceding principles obtain power whose putative purpose enact principles first place. thomas jefferson understood this. 1792, political adversary contemplating running house representatives, jefferson concerned real damage could done. consequently, jefferson wrote friend madison, “i think nothing better could done make judge.” rival’s name john marshall.what makes judges different today, much “but courts” conservatives willing forgo important principles attain judiciary? obtaining life tenure allies worthwhile bargain conservatives believe courts substantially powerful long run elected branches medium term. that’s true, something constitutionally awry: judges affecting life america elected officials. are, course, reasons thoughtful conservatives supported mr. trump. many swayed “but courts” defense alone despite myriad concerns mr. trump compelling evidence judiciary grown independent heaven itself.
‘shalane flanagan effect’ works shalane flanagan new york city marathon last week, victory athletic achievement. course, it’s remarkable one: she’s first american woman win 40 years, blistering 2 hours 26 minutes.but perhaps flanagan’s bigger accomplishment lies nurturing promoting rising talent around her, rare quality cutthroat world elite sports. every single one training partners — 11 women total — made olympics training her, extraordinary feat. call shalane effect: serve rocket booster careers women work alongside you, catapulting forward yourself.“shalane pioneered new brand ‘team mom’ young up-and-comers, confidence tear others protect place hierarchy,” said lauren fleshman, became professional runner early 2000s, around time flanagan did. “shalane’s legacy role modeling, women every industry would like see of.”here’s worked flanagan burst onto scene. college, promising female distance athletes would generally embark aggressive training broke down. developed staying power required dominate global stage. didn’t much community support them; domestic women’s distance running fractious atrophied. 2000, example, one american woman qualified olympic marathon, training alone anchorage home treadmill.but things changed 2009, flanagan joined jerry schumacher’s fledgling running group portland, ore., called bowerman track club. team’s lone woman, worked create something new: team professional female distance runners would train together push one another striking collective success. coached man surrounded mostly male runners, time flanagan teammates outperformed men national global arenas.instead threatened teammates’ growing accomplishments, flanagan embraced them, brought women, elevating level become formidable group distance athletes nation. national championships, world championships, olympics: became best runners world.one them, emily infeld, joined club portland college, developed one stress fracture another. contemplated quitting 2014. december, flanagan took aside glass wine talk.“i really struggling — cried told ‘i can’t it, body isn’t built this,’ ” recalled infeld. “and totally changed mind-set. told course bad, believed could better. got better, trained together held accountable. it’s completely changed career.”by following august, infeld become one fastest runners world, taking surprise bronze 10,000 meters world championships.this selfless acts mentorship; camaraderie flanagan fostered teammates served well.“i thoroughly enjoy working women,” flanagan told me. “i think makes better athlete person. allows passion toward training racing. achieve great things own, doesn’t feel nearly special.”in fact, arguably made difference securing spot olympics last year.on searing day los angeles united states olympic marathon trials february 2016, flanagan teammate amy cragg broke away pack early race. spent months training together day ran stride-for-stride matching uniforms. toward end race, flanagan’s face turned red began wilt, staggering bit advantage narrowed.cragg slowed urged on, pacing final miles even fetching water flanagan could conserve energy, remarkable demonstration support racecourse. flanagan barely made across finish line, collapsed cragg’s arms. flanagan able make fourth olympic team go become top american finisher olympic marathon rio, sixth place.“we run thousands miles together; worked hard this. every step way, struggling me,” cragg told months race. “we someone like shalane you’re kind dependent her, back would thing.”this year, cragg took bronze medal marathon track field world championships.flanagan’s leadership style doesn’t fit “girl boss” leadership archetypes flourishing pop culture, ivanka trump feminism, shallow claims support women, yields results. (ms. trump’s kind feminism may attract cheers races, win them.) flanagan talk elevating women; elevates them. win.the flanagan kind feminism — ruthless adherence goals — rarely makes interesting stories moment. took flanagan time turned professional, 2004, year win major international race; years tedium drudgery, robotic routine (churning legs 130 miles week). went first vacation seven years marathon training suffering stress fracture spring. it’s fun, it’s relatable.to sure, flanagan’s unapologetic competitiveness universally popular, respected it. flanagan boldly acknowledged work put marathon training unabashed wanting win race. victory new york involved fist-pumping profanity-laced affirmations crossed finish line front millions viewers.we usually see competitive women, particularly athletically excellent women, one two ways: either competing defeat one another, team self. that’s flawed, limiting paradigm. shalane effect dismantles it: extraordinarily competitive, petty; team-oriented, deferential. elevating women actually act self-interest: it’s lonely top bring others along.so, coincidence that, support system spent years building herself, flanagan finally prevailed.
china donald trump wants yangon, myanmar — president trump incidental china’s ambitions, mere blip 33-year plan. speech last month, president xi jinping set objectives great clarity. 2035 china “global leader innovation,” showing “solid progress” toward “prosperity everyone.” 2050, china “global leader terms composite national strength” “great, modern socialist country.”xi gave trump warm welcome week, said pacific big enough nations offered business agreements. trump made nice suggested china united states could solve “almost all” world’s problems, “and probably them.” noise. real story growing chinese strength, steady chinese purpose aimed midcentury dominance erratic american outbursts suggestive petulant great power’s retreat.china busy. reserves, surpluses growth shape world. important, pride confidence think long term. america first, trump’s ugly slogan, reeks retrenchment. contrast, xi’s one belt, one road initiative enormous infrastructure project designed use chinese money technology reconnect old silk road tie nations china. scope value dwarfs marshall plan, postwar reconstruction program europe farsighted expression american confidence almost 70 years ago.xi’s speech 19th national congress communist party china marked apotheosis. joined pantheon along mao zedong deng xiaoping. thought dogma. china entered different phase. grown independent rich, “becoming strong.”to end strength used? china, xi said, “offers new option countries nations want speed development preserving independence.” new era begun “that sees china moving closer center stage.”there could scarcely explicit offer china alternative, single-party, authoritarian model liberal democratic system united states (of trump feeble advocate). china “actively pursuing almost ideological competition united states,” said yun sun, senior associate stimson center. xi’s speech “a declaration chinese saying game, winning game.”they are, now. chinese gambit — past, china reticent offering global paradigm — comes moment american democratic fracture. it’s good moment beijing talk arriving “center stage.” trump really ideas. impulses (like dangerous infatuation saudi arabia).on asian swing, president spoke pursuing “free open indo-pacific region” built around democracies including india, japan australia. right thing say counter china. hundreds millions asians outside china don’t want find obliged study xi jinping thought. prefer liberalism leninism.xi jinping thought calls building chinese military “world-class forces obey party’s command, fight win.” portrays leadership communist party “the defining feature” chinese society.so trump’s commitment indo-pacific freedom significant. it’s also dubious. trump likes surpluses, hates deficits. it’s clear whether trump strategy get beyond zero-sum rabble-rousing.around asia, last thing countries want choose china united states. singapore myanmar, know america possible balance china. china money investment, united states security freedom. chinese-american relationship regional order depends on.those chinese targets 2035 2050 presuppose one essential thing: regional stability. that’s headline, trump’s machinations. second korean war would nuclear war. last thing china wants.the second-to-last thing end north korean regime united korean peninsula border, allied united states. china’s rise dominance predicated stability dominance achieved. kim jong-un, north korean leader, must managed context.therefore, china try squeeze kim, point denuclearization (let alone collapse) point provoke united states japan. question whether kim controllable.the question whether trump controllable. xi projects image reliable partner committed open, stable trading system. trump, meanwhile, goes walkabout saudis.for now, conventional saudi-backed war lebanon iranian-backed hezbollah likely nuclear war pyongyang. things happen america-first american president can’t think beyond next week (or money).
sex, senators — oh gosh, mitt mitt romney coming back.well, maybe. romney seems angling senate seat utah’s orrin hatch retires next year. it’s tribute times live moment, looks … wow, bad.it true politician romney would pander guppy. week veritable profile courage republican standards. told party drop “if true” hedge talking charges alabama senate candidate roy moore sexually assaulted 14-year-old girl.“innocent proven guilty criminal convictions, elections,” romney said. “i believe leigh corfman. account serious ignore. moore unfit office step aside.”simple straightforward. election high office honor, right. voters, urged past elections reject candidates everything bad hair pregnant, look moore story — including multiple women say dated tried date 30s 16 18 — say no.romney completely right. doesn’t matter think he’s making grab attention. way, that’s whole point. man always finger wind, intuited thing american people want hear: political uprising powerful men putting grubby hands powerless women.it’s they’re getting senate republicans, simply shaking heads saying moore step … turns really terrible thing washington post reported stupendously credible detail. (john mccain one first demand moore drop out; jeff flake telling world terrible person moore even sex accusations came up.)president trump, according press secretary, believes “a mere allegation” shouldn’t “destroy person’s life.” pretty unsurprising. all, president said anything less weaselly, would swiftly point guy recorded bragging didn’t bother wait permission started kissing women, adding “grab ’em pussy. anything.”which excuse bringing up.meanwhile, alabama republican party desperately trying cover moore’s tracks:■ “other underage person — didn’t really force himself.”■ “the thing went president trump ran office; 15 ladies ran press said thing.”■ “there’s nothing immoral illegal here. maybe little bit unusual.”that last alabama state auditor — guy cited bible argued joseph thing mary. covered politics long time, swear first time i’ve seen race hinging issue virgin birth.it’s possible moore elected. alabama super-red state. american voters strong history switching parties order punish politician personal misbehavior. ballot already printed. (a hollywood studio erasing kevin spacey entire movie, you’re ballot, earthly power get off.)the whole spectacle would less awful least republicans outside state spine speak — follow romney’s lead.whoever thought we’d get point urging everybody agree mitt? romney appears man exemplary private life, political front moral spine whatsoever. spent 2016 warning world terrible, terrible person donald trump was, wouldn’t even say voted november, except wasn’t hillary. exactly helpful sitting outside polling place sign says, “i’m sulking.”now, however, looking new eyes. really, he’s due. george w. bush getting super-popular, least romney never wrecked entire middle east. true, get republican nomination 2012 slamming opponents soft illegal immigrants. history babbling “self-deportation” somehow seems lot less troubling days.it’s also true romney complained barack obama elected help college-age women trading votes “free contraceptives.” we’ve got president who’s turning pregnancy prevention programs people don’t believe birth control.and yes, candidate romney’s idea expressing empathy low-income americans saying, “there’s question it’s good poor.” that’s better trump’s recent revelation felt sorry rich people propose eliminating estate tax “just give something.”who’d ever thought it? wish mitt president.
trump age strongman recent weeks, two leaders — xi jinping china mohammed bin salman saudi arabia — consolidated personal power degrees unprecedented countries’ recent histories. donald trump, presumptive leader free world, praised it.in later october, china’s communist party added called “xi jinping thought new era socialism chinese special characteristics” constitution. cult-of-personality campaign xi, reminiscent days mao zedong, full swing. purges political rivals, dressed “anti-corruption” drives.a days later saudi arabia’s turn, crown prince mohammed launching wave dismissals detentions senior ministers fellow members royal family. again, pretext corruption. again, goal sideline rivals aims take elderly father’s throne remake kingdom — best, arabian version autocratic liberalism practiced late shah iran (an improvement, sure, current conditions).xi mohammed alone. living another age strongmen: recep tayyip erdogan turkey; abdel fattah el-sisi egypt; rodrigo duterte philippines; viktor orban hungary; vladimir putin russia. trump isn’t one — american system won’t allow it, tuesday’s elections happily remind us — though fits psychological profile yearns level control.we also living another era democratic self-doubt. low growth became new normal better part decade. fight wars don’t know win rue consequences action (iraq) inaction (syria) alike. inhabit culture despise see way improving. congress paralyzed. parties broken. president dolt.such moments aren’t historically unknown: seem recur roughly every 40 years. 1930s 1970s also periods autocratic resurgence democratic degeneration, exhaustion process-based politics gave rise enthusiasms politics charisma, efficiency, both.“i seen future works,” progressive journalist lincoln steffens’s judgment soviet union. “the notion liberty,” added, “is false, hangover western tyranny.”but something different time. franklin roosevelt later ronald reagan, united states elevated leaders made case superiority open societies closed ones. ennobled democracy giving sense destiny high moral purpose.“optimism order,” reagan told british parliament june 1982, adding “march freedom democracy” would leave “marxism-leninism ash-heap history.” reagan spoke moment unemployment united states reaching 10 percent prime interest rate ran north 15 percent. right, prophetic, confidence infectious.compare trump, visit beijing made clear arousing finds huge displays military pageantry. “you’re special man,” president told xi, congratulated “extraordinary elevation” dictator-for-life. left unsaid man whose regime has, recent years, kidnapped hong kong booksellers, imprisoned country’s sole winner nobel peace prize, kept widow house arrest, seized u.s. naval equipment international waters.as saudi arabia, trump tweeted approval purge saying crown prince father “know exactly doing” detainees regime “harshly treating” “‘milking’ country years!”american presidents parties, including roosevelt reagan, long known maintain productive relationships regimes whose judicial political standards fall short own. previous administrations also used prudent diplomatic silence face domestic upheavals abroad.but trump’s rhetorical effusions behalf repressive communist dictator saudi political crackdown something else: american presidency service un-american values. conservatives enraged jimmy carter lavished praise romanian despot nicolae ceausescu. say president now?the trump administration proposed gutting funding national endowment democracy, whose origins lie reagan’s 1982 speech. national security council dropped focus democracy human rights. state department giving active consideration scrubbing democracy promotion mission statement.this supposed counsel realism, lesson bitter experience past democratic exuberance. smacks envy stunted strongman feels role models. raises question stand freedom age strongman rolls forward, unopposed. ☐
‘if true’ cowardice article part opinion today newsletter. sign receive briefings guide section daily inbox.she 14 years old time. roy moore 32-year-old prosecutor. took home woods, woman says, removed clothes molested her.the washington post’s story moore — centered around allegation — detailed persuasive. included named sources, corroborating evidence multiple disturbing incidents.after story’s publication yesterday, common reaction republicans conditional condemnation revolved around words “if true.” spokeswoman vice president mike pence said, “if true, would disqualify anyone serving office.” mitch mcconnell’s statement similar.it’s wholly insufficient response.i understand senators might make immediate response conditional. maybe didn’t yet read story. read story, one decent response: moore, republican nominee become alabama’s next senator, needs quit race immediately.the “if true” response wrongly suggests final reckoning facts remove doubt moore did. won’t be. likely continue denying allegations, people choose post’s reams evidence moore’s lack it.john mccain showed ethical response looked like, didn’t need long issue it:“the allegations roy moore deeply disturbing disqualifying. immediately step aside allow people alabama elect candidate proud of.”what trumpworld hears. seeking downplay moore story, steve bannon said speech last night “the bezos amazon washington post dropped dime donald trump bezos amazon washington post dropped dime afternoon judge roy moore.” (he referring post’s reporting, october 2016, tape trump bragged molesting women.)taxes. senate pass tax bill hurts middle class doesn’t hurt middle class much house tax bill?obviously not. appears choice senators have, based yesterday’s early news senate bill.republican senate leaders seem putting together bill designed give huge tax cuts wealthy little middle class. bill would also create large budget deficits middle-class families would ultimately help pay off.the senate probably take away damaging provisions house bill, like higher tax rate low-income households. bill still seems geared overwhelmingly wealthy. one centerpiece reduction estate tax, falls sliver rich families. another provision makes house bill worse: lower income tax rate highest earners.it still possible senate write bill actually tries clean tax code make life easier middle class poor. senate long way so.i’m encouraged see several republican senators raising concerns. bob corker jeff flake worried soaring deficits. mike lee marco rubio want larger child tax credit. also multiple differences senate house bills could difficult square. three republicans likely keep damaging bill passing.elsewhere: john harwood conducted meaty cnbc interview gary cohn, top white house economics adviser, yesterday. among points harwood made: additional economic growth bill might create corporate tax changes likely overwhelmed drag larger deficits. cohn didn’t good answer.red century. colleague max strasser, opinion editor, writes:“one hundred years ago week, bolshevik revolution began st. petersburg, russia. year, opinion section’s red century series looked back revolution aftershocks. first installment, february, david priestland wrote communism’s legacy also future might hold. final installment, week, simon sebag montefiore looked revolution reverberates, might happened never occurred — almost didn’t.“those couple great pieces series. want know event 1917 shaped world, read rest red century series here.”the full opinion report times follows, including diana nyad life childhood sexual assault.
saudi arabia’s special power donald trump consider foreign policy challenge: mideast leader undertakes stunning power play cement domestic control, carrying mass arrests without due process installing loyalists key ministries. ratchets criticism regional rival accuses effectively declaring war. another mideast leader, visit first one’s country, abruptly resigns doesn’t return home.if happening iran, it’s fair guess president trump, congress host voices would react outrage. truth, scenario sums what’s happening saudi arabia last week crown prince mohammed bin salman. mr. trump could effusive. “i great confidence king salman crown prince saudi arabia, know exactly doing,” tweeted.there’s big difference, course, saudi arabia iran; former american ally, latter antagonist. american practice give allies free pass they’re destabilizing region, saudi policies, domestic foreign, become increasingly aggressive crown prince mohammed. addition power play, he’s escalated saudi involvement yemen; continued boycott qatar, ostensibly another american ally; made inflammatory statements iran. saad hariri, lebanese prime minister, resigned week ago saudi capital, riyadh, circumstances remain mystery.no problem, suggests mr. trump, made clear early would side kingdom sunni allies shiite-led iran. problem: mr. trump’s uncritical support prince’s behavior stirring fears war iran undermining american interests.secretary state rex tillerson knows this, even boss doesn’t. friday mr. tillerson reaffirmed lebanon’s independence, hailed mr. hariri cautioned using lebanon proxy conflicts. words stern, indirect, admonishment saudi arabia. boss oval office. though headstrong saudi prince pay attention american underling repeatedly undermined boss?
insanity taxpayer-funded addiction pharmaceutical industry listed one “contributors current crisis” final report president trump’s commission combating drug addiction opioid crisis. report cites decades aggressive marketing industry-sponsored physician “conferences” aimed expanding opioid use minimizing dangers addiction. lawsuits state attorneys general, counties local jurisdictions allege industry fostered epidemic overpromoting products, raking billions americans became addicted overdosed. “to day,” commission says, “the opioid pharmaceutical industry influences nation’s response crisis.”it sure does. response epidemic kills 50,000 americans year, trump administration wants spend tens millions dollars part help industry responsible sell ostensibly nonaddictive pain medications “abuse deterrent” opioids addictive original opioids.in recent speech, president trump praised new public-private partnership involving national institutes health pharmaceutical companies develop nonaddictive painkillers new treatments addiction overdoses. “i’ll pushing concept nonaddictive painkillers very, hard,” promised. n.i.h. says hasn’t set budget “public-private initiative” spent roughly $600 million research pain opioid use abuse 2016.the federal centers disease control prevention recommends prescribers avoid opioids chronic pain. experts affiliated pharmaceutical industry urge doctors make greater use over-the-counter analgesics non-pharmacological pain relief methods like physical spinal manipulative therapies, movement retraining electrical stimulation.in september, meeting trenton dozen pharmaceutical manufacturers explore solutions crisis, opioids commission’s chairman, gov. chris christie new jersey, said developing nonaddictive drugs priority. among companies hosted purdue pharma. late october new jersey’s attorney general joined 10 states suing purdue, owned sackler family, alleging purdue deceptively marketed drug oxycontin safe long-term use. “the attorney general makes judgments, governor,” mr. christie said.purdue executives call abuse-deterrent opioids, along highly effective non-opioid pain products, “holy grail” pharmaceutical industry.“abuse-deterrent marketing term used mislead,” says dr. adriane fugh-berman, pharmacology physiology professor georgetown university directs pharmedout, group monitors pharmaceutical industry marketing efforts. “at least half prescribers think abuse-deterrent means less addictive.” not; abuse-deterrent pills simply harder crush alter injection snorting. “it doesn’t prevent swallowing them, common way abusing opioids,” dr. fugh-berman said.in email, purdue spokesman cited support n.i.h., food drug administration drug enforcement administration approach, saying along pharmaceutical companies “stakeholders” company believes “abuse-deterrent technologies one many effective components multipart approach toward combating prescription opioid abuse, misuse diversion.”purdue says supports c.d.c. guidelines, chief executive, craig landau, said trenton, “i firmly believe many opioids prescribed country.” true. purdue owns large share responsibility that.the n.i.h. began public-private initiative summer series closed-door meetings pharmaceutical companies academics. n.i.h. spokeswoman, renate myles, said research would include work non-pharmacological approaches, “we need develop new nonaddictive medications pain. medications brought market active participation pharmaceutical industry.”purdue participated n.i.h. initiative. june, response call public comments, j. david haddox, company’s vice president policy, sent letter commission outlining purdue’s proposed “policy options,” including recommending f.d.a. “convert” opioid market predominately abuse-deterrent formulations.the commission’s report includes important recommendations like expanding medicaid coverage inpatient treatment; expanding treatment buprenorphine, methadone medications, including still developed; establishing national curriculum standards opioid prescribers; expanding alternative system drug courts encourage treatment. immediate priorities, channeling money meds drug companies, pockets americans whose pain industry’s gain.
women walked talk tuesday back january, millions fired-up women pink pussy hats marched washington, los angeles, chicago scores places protest election president trump, democrats wondered whether could start movement, republicans hoped little one-off explosion rage.on tuesday came answer. across country, city council lieutenant governors’ races, female democratic candidates notched impressive election victories.“everywhere went, women activated loss last year, activated march january, knocking doors. got excited candidates, neighbors,” says stephanie schriock, president emily’s list, political action committee recruits, supports funds women support abortion rights.during 2015 2016 cycles, 920 women approached emily’s list help. biggest surge interest organization’s three decades, ms. schriock staff called “hillary bump.” hillary clinton’s loss left every democratic organization, least emily’s list, reeling exhausted. then, first month election, thousand women called emailed, seeking advice money stab elective office. year on, 20,000 women contacted group, eyeing races years future. “first-time candidates vast, vast majority,” ms. schriock says. “this next decade women coming up.”emily’s list endorsed 55 candidates nationwide tuesday’s races, 33 won. far, 13 16 endorsed candidates virginia house delegates (a couple may face runoffs.)that many women landed ballots year remarkable, skills organizing talent, gender, proved persuasive. strong roots jurisdictions represent. careers medicine, education, law, community organizing fields equipped ideas tackling issues voters cared about: health care, guns, criminal justice, opioid addiction.in words, type candidates run congress 2018, democrats hope make gains enough put brakes mr. trump’s agenda.sheila oliver, new jersey’s first female african-american lieutenant governor, 2010 2014 first black female assembly speaker. 2011 parted fellow democrats join gov. chris christie backing overhaul benefits public workers, arguing move, unpopular, financially unavoidable, better seat table.joyce craig unseated incumbent republican, ted gatsas, become first female mayor 266-year history manchester, n.h. ms. craig born manchester, served school board alderman, authoring three city budgets. yvonne spicer, new mayor framingham, mass., political neophyte: former schoolteacher, vice president advocacy educational partnerships boston’s museum science. beat john stefanini, longtime local pol, thanks desire among voters fresh face.in virginia democrats made historic gains ticket. prince william county, democrats ousted five six republicans representing county house delegates. among winners elizabeth guzman hala ayala, bested incumbent men become virginia’s first latina delegates. ms. guzman background social work, family mental health services; beat republican opponent, scott lingamfelter, strong door-to-door campaign helped increase voter turnout 70 percent. ms. ayala, 35-year resident prince william county, beat rich anderson, incumbent whose seat democrats didn’t even contest 2015, delivering republicans one loudest wake-up calls tuesday’s races. cybersecurity specialist department homeland security helped organize d.c. women’s march january.“this slowing down,” ms. schriock says. “it’s moment we’ve never seen before, we’ve waiting 32 years.”
nothing cheer new york city elections leaving new york city elections behind, let’s note things voters do.for starters, necessarily give mayor bill de blasio mandate repeatedly proclaimed winning 66 percent vote tuesday. “mandate” abused word american politics. winners way claiming even without majority even plurality (see: bush, george w., trump, donald).granted, life belongs show up, mr. de blasio splendidly among bothered going polls. same, three four registered new york voters stayed home. silence, itself, important statement. many may saying displeased mayor, also found competition unpalatable.mr. de blasio might want bear mind that, give take percentage point, mere 16 percent eligible electorate. that’s miles brilliant.he similar situation first elected 2013. yet acted crowned laurel wreath. cockiness caused stumble necessary — among things, foolishly late appointments, excessively protective dubious supporters overly confident national status. maybe learned unforced errors enter second term confidence also essential humility.voters give cyrus vance jr. mandate, either. may seem odd say, given mr. vance third term manhattan district attorney 90 percent ballots cast. name ballot. even so, 9.4 percent voters took trouble write names others preferred. (their identities yet known, bet preet bharara, united states attorney manhattan ousted president trump, got support.)that 9.4 percent extraordinarily high write-in votes. may reasonably viewed rebuke mr. vance taking campaign money lawyers dealings office, including past represented harvey weinstein ivanka trump donald trump jr. d.a. fend questions impartiality deciding pursue potential cases mr. weinstein trumps. wisely, says review fund-raising practices. write-in votes seem saying: good idea.finally, voters well women new york politics. wasn’t entirely fault. city that’s overwhelmingly blue, relatively female democrats ballot city council. unless count changes result queens district, new council 11 women among 51 members — quite 22 percent. that’s 18 women 2009, reinforces warning council’s women’s caucus august “we face systemic crisis representation.”perhaps equally important, 12 years body’s speakership held women, position seems destined go man. whoever must ensure legislation right hold half sky.
mr. trump, alone lies warming world president trump party one.earlier week, syria announced international conference bonn, germany, would add name historic 2015 paris climate agreement, nearly 200 countries pledged best efforts reduce greenhouse gas emissions. would leave united states country rejected paris deal, mr. trump rose garden rant june 1 notable, even trumpian standards, dishonesty.our advice delegates bonn this: ignore mr. trump, seems, issue anyway, beyond persuasion. honor pledges. get talks, supposed build paris agreement establishing benchmarks measure well you’re lay groundwork even ambitious targets 2020. hope, do, efforts underway state local governments private businesses control emissions move united states cleaner energy future make mr. trump’s indifference.that mr. trump wants paris one measure indifference. better measure provided policies would move exactly wrong direction, policies aimed overturning greenhouse gas regulations power plants, repealing limits methane emissions, weakening automobile efficiency standards, enlarging subsidies coal plants increasing oil drilling arctic.meanwhile, hacks, industry careerists global warming deniers appointed run agencies responsible climate policy mostly joke, latest howler kathleen hartnett white, former texas regulator mr. trump named run white house council environmental quality. mrs. white, who, approved, would coordinate administration’s environmental policy, dismissed carbon dioxide “harmless trace gas” (but useful “plant food”) described “paganism” belief man-made pollutants warming atmosphere.outlandish though views are, she’ll fit right see-no-evil likes scott pruitt, administrator environmental protection agency, scrubbed references climate change agency’s website barred scientists presenting reports subject; rick perry, energy secretary various oddball schemes prop coal plants; others high office seem impervious real-time evidence climate change — wildfires, hurricanes rising seas — well one authoritative study another, latest congressionally mandated national climate assessment directly contradicts administration’s view humans responsible.we’ve before. george w. bush administration, government officials doctored scientific reports, vice president dick cheney stacked top ranks government friends fossil fuel industry, president rejected climate agreement adopted 1997 kyoto, japan, “fatally flawed” because, said, would damage economy.mr. bush made many flawed arguments mr. trump making. he, too, fretted unnecessarily federal overreach, greatly underestimating jobs economic benefits clean energy economy could bring. was, however, one big difference. amid mr. bush’s flimflam solid beef kyoto agreement, namely, committed big industrial countries making legally binding emissions reductions targets, let developing countries — included china india — hook.that complaint longer valid. one great achievements paris accord, engineered large part president barack obama secretary state, john kerry, ropes everyone. everyone, is, except one nation whose president bailed out.
social media democracy editor:re “silicon valley can’t destroy democracy without help,” emily parker (op-ed, nov. 3):social media may create bad habits, feeds them, one reason alone: money.those want blame social media state democracy, well want absolve industry blame, can’t ignore essential point.twitter, google facebook moneymaking enterprises, whatever need increase revenue. helping hurting democracy incidental goal, improving degrading daily lives, making world better worse place.social media may harmful allow be, whether social media force good, often claimed, would ask this: many people working industry would still jobs paid as, say, teaching social work?don’t ask intentions, aspirations responsibilities social media companies. follow money. that’s real story.steven k. wojcikiewiczportland, ore.to editor:emily parker repeats industry ideas individual responsibility faith self-regulating systems. manipulation, however, feature, bug, many products platforms companies like google facebook design. fact premise advertising businesses account 90 percent revenue.discreet changes underlying algorithms platforms immense power seen users but, important, affect goes unseen.but silicon valley corporations willfully opaque explaining algorithms work, objectives ultimately benefiting.to call platforms “a mirror” fails acknowledge role ideology plays construction power big tech determine winners losers society.jason friedman, brooklynto editor:re “how fix facebook? asked 9 experts” (news article, nov. 1):i found suggested “fixes” facebook et al. unhelpful, focused technical tweaks appeals somehow make us nicer knowledgeable.facebook, twitter forth publishers readers’ posts. closest comparison perhaps letters column new york times. “curate” letters page carefully; they.it excuse protest simply much “ink” ever able this. provide huge platform, huge number people looking it. like publisher, legally responsible publish.anthony j. walters, chicagoto editor:getting toothpaste back tube easy. it’s clear time social media instrument chaos. equivalent millions people standing soapboxes street shouting things you. many things false, abusive lot people hide behind curtains can’t know true identities.as americans believe see social media, agree real fake.democracy requires informed involved citizenry, people country cannot even agree actually happening, democracy survive?it may late, least facebook others must limit news feeds comes legitimate, acknowledged professional journalism sources.there still lot “alternate facts,” conspiracy theories plain lies bandied innocent willful postings, sites certainly provide fact-checks gain currency. wean people, especially young people, away social media back legitimate news sources may impossible task.michael spielman, bronxto editor:while reports entities associated russian government posting propagandistic material social media outlets undoubtedly true, reports neither surprising significant. secret outlets facebook twitter online gossip boards rather journalistic scholarly venues.what surprising people would base important decisions social media postings since verification accuracy virtually impossible. intellectually lazy best.paul romero, oakland, calif.
fanning division social media editor:re “congress scolds tech companies russia” (front page, nov. 2):it encouraging many lawmakers expressed concern kremlin attempted “polarize american voting public issues like race, police abuse religion,” one hopes find bipartisan way move forward safeguard future elections foreign intervention. however, russians would able attempt subversion issues already exploited, many decades, unscrupulous domestic entities politics media.so, willie horton ad, voter suppression efforts, attempts president trump vilify immigrants attack pillars american democracy press judiciary, unhealthy divisions among americans nurtured, magnified exploited order win elections.future russian efforts may thwarted best move toward decency american politics. regrettably, easily attainable goal.alan s. weiner, yonkersto editor:it clear materials released facebook twitter that, leading 2016 election, russia engaged campaign divide american voting public. frustration members congress conducting hearings efforts certainly understandable. country clearly polarized, ads purchased kremlin-linked entities troubling.more worrisome, however, divisive conduct donald trump’s campaign continued efforts since taking office fan divisions country bullying racist, misogynistic, hate-encouraging tweets rallies. effort, mirroring documented efforts russia never undertaken president, certainly appears collusion, stupidity, evidence deeply flawed character combination these.no matter one looks it, though, bode well country. time congress turn attention biggest threat democracy, stand values standards made america great administration came power.robert m. levine, new yorkto editor:re “internet giants pique senators restraint” (front page, nov. 1):after raking tech executives coals russia’s use social media influence presidential campaign, senator lindsey graham told reporters, “what need sit find ways bring controls over-the-air broadcast social media protect consumer.”as scholar studies first amendment issues ways campaign finance laws used stifle speech pretext safeguarding democracy, get nervous politicians discuss need “controls” media “protect” us. american people nervous, too.david m. primo, rochesterthe writer associate professor political science business administration university rochester.
choosing health plan editor:re “why many people select wrong health plan,” richard h. thaler (economic view column, nov. 5):there’s another reason people choose wrong plan: h.r. departments aren’t knowledgeable plan employees choose. joined last employer faced confusing choice, recommendation h.r. “choose cheapest plan.”that wasn’t helpful. narrowed choice two three plans emailed provider three doctor bills previous year. difference coverage remarkable.why use app lets consumers enter data — previous bills, including prescription needs — help employees make informed decision? surely that’s much ask employers health insurance market.fred p. hochberg, miami beachthe writer pritzker fellow university chicago’s institute politics.
n.y.u. abu dhabi editor:re “journalism teachers boycott n.y.u. abu dhabi” (news article, nov. 8):we saddened two faculty members could come teach n.y.u. abu dhabi, find decision journalism institute disappointing, antithetical fundamental mission education fractured world.n.y.u. abu dhabi perhaps ethnically religiously diverse student body world, reflecting rich diversity abu dhabi united arab emirates. home 115 nationalities people faiths — sunni, shiite, christian, jewish, hindu — embrace values mutual respect, understanding inclusivity.together built elite global university, one enjoys academic freedom produced eight rhodes scholars four years, highest number per student university world.as university, control visa processes. control willingness engage across borders perspectives. reaching understand others find build common sense purpose responsibility 21st century demands.al bloomabu dhabi, united arab emiratesthe writer vice chancellor n.y.u. abu dhabi.
tip hotel housekeepers? editor: “hotel housekeepers often forgotten tips given” (itineraries column, business day, oct. 31):i don’t know set expectation hotel housekeepers get tips instead living wage, clear guests aren’t buying it.we partly “tipping society,” fire well restaurants. provision cleaning service one things pay high nightly charges.the employers provide service pay workers; it’s included bill. don’t defend exploitative practice; end it.susan b. shurin, san diegoto editor:bravo bringing readers subject tipping hotel housekeepers!whenever assigned barbara ehrenreich’s book “nickel dimed” 11th-grade students part english elective course nonfiction, always students particularly moved stories tipping hotel employees.each semester, without fail, handful students told educated parents adopt policy leaving least $2 per day stay.maggie miles, barrington, r.i.
we’re sick racism, literally estifanos zerai-misgun, black brookline, mass., police officer, pulled unmarked car greeted superior, white lieutenant. wasn’t prepared response lieutenant, said, gestured vehicle, “who would put black man behind one these?”“i shocked,” officer later told boston news station experience. one several derogatory racial comments would hear job. got bad black colleague walked away force 2015.the statements they’d heard offensive times threatening moment, also made men fear safety work broader sense: black officers weren’t sure white colleagues willing antagonize would back attacked patrol.even mr. zerai-misgun colleague never directly physically harmed, experience probably took toll bodies. perceptions discrimination like officers experienced, well less direct, may make us sick. current political environment, high-profile expressions racism, sexism, anti-semitism, islamophobia, homophobia xenophobia, along widely covered acts hate bigotry, countless americans risk type harm.take mr. zerai-misgun example. chances are, reaction instance perceived discrimination, stress response. blood pressure increased, heart rate went up, brain sent signal release cortisol. know 2008, researchers studied effects discrimination blood pressure. black latino study participants recorded interactions perceived racism outfitted blood pressure monitors. results striking. blood pressure normally dips night, said they’d experienced racism likely blood pressure — strongly linked increased mortality. time, high blood pressure hardens arteries, increasing risk clot forming hearts brains.in 2015, researchers examined effect discrimination cortisol, natural hormone helps body deal stressful situations. followed black white children maryland, measuring perceived racial discrimination starting seventh grade 20 years thereafter. study participants early 30s, researchers calculated cortisol levels. perceptions discrimination consistently predicted slower declines cortisol level throughout day, associated obesity, depression, decreased immune function, cancer death.more 700 studies link discrimination health published since 2000. body work establishes connection discrimination physical mental well-being. effects, wonder 100,000 black people die prematurely year.these days, it’s nearly impossible avoid headlines things like white nationalists neo-nazis marched charlottesville, va., recent spike expressions identity-based hate harassment. commander chief said wants ban transgender people military muslim people nation, pardoned former sheriff joe arpaio, sign approval mr. arpaio’s notorious racial profiling latinos arizona.in climate, makes sense many people report personally experienced discrimination. recent polls, half black respondents third hispanic respondents reported they’d experienced unfair treatment race past month. half muslims reported discrimination past year. even one denies self-reported instances constituted actual discrimination, perception discrimination, itself, linked poor health.worse, know racism doesn’t experienced person affect health — taking form news coverage likely similar effects. all, studies shown television viewers observe scenes depicting racism, blood pressure remains elevated long scenes over. means it’s reasonable believe every time see tv news segment even get notification phones event, statement policy believe represents discrimination, bodies pay price.we shouldn’t need specter disease denounce hatred forms. racism, bigotry, sexism, anti-semitism, islamophobia, homophobia, xenophobia, place society. illness associated discrimination adds injury insult magnifies suffering times.
donald trump save roy moore all? daphne, ala. — election season always tense time alabama, still shadowed george wallace’s “segregation forever” antics dread among educated voters latest political star humiliate state yet eyes nation.but since state sent william lowndes yancey, original secessionist “fire eater,” congress 1844 alabama embarrassment syndrome reached acute stage past week, roy moore, homophobic front-runner united states senate special election next month, accused washington post sexually molesting 14-year-old girl luring remote home alabama hills.coming heels republican losses virginia tuesday, dec. 12 election alabama, prides spiritual heartland trump revolution, closely watched critical test mr. trump’s political vitality. even moore allegations surfaced, race democratic nominee, doug jones, celebrated prosecutor klan bombers, presented potentially historic breach alabama’s long record electing candidate best known radical showmanship.i decided head home state watch race mr. moore, former state supreme court judge, republican nomination september luther strange, lumbering former state attorney general known big luther endorsed mr. trump financed senate majority leader, mitch mcconnell. mr. moore fundamentalist christian channels reaganesque cowboy imagery rides horse named sassy polling place. crushed charisma-challenged mr. strange, stunning elite republicans, whose party consumed class warfare suburbanites rural white evangelicals make mr. trump’s base.born birmingham 1943, found contest irresistible collision national forces alabama’s political tradition. elections performance art, victory reward eye-catching clowns like yancey, cotton tom heflin 1920s, jim folsom 1940s 1950s, wallace 1960s, mr. moore.nationally, mr. moore known ranting gay people, celebrated home putting granite monument 5,000 pounds engraved ten commandments rotunda state judicial building giving job chief justice rather obey court order removal. words, cast perfectly star alabama’s timeless election carnival romanticized defiance self-parody. earliest surviving commentary state politics written letter 1954 brother, soldier germany. referred speech praising bull connor “sickening.” subsequently re-elected command police fire departments birmingham public safety commissioner, setting stage fire hoses police dogs 1963.by 1965, reporter, writing birmingham post-herald wallace’s segregation rallies. new york times, wrote magazine piece coming-of-age birmingham’s racial caldron. 1977 book, “my soul rested,” one first works describe man known dynamite bob, connor associate wallace acquaintance later revealed robert chambliss, leader klan bomb squads.the tradition rebelling progress left alabama state old confederacy never elected senator governor untainted scandal willing embrace modern attitudes race, social justice economic fairness. sat macedonia missionary baptist church daphne recently, wondered mr. jones, steelworker’s son, could become first campaigner confront alabamians’ mind-set grievance.“we started alabama wrong side history,” mr. jones said church. “let’s let ghosts define us.” day earlier, said: “roy moore represents backward look. i’m tired alabama embarrassment around country.”to knowledge candidate addressed alabama inferiority complex directly mr. jones, exception wallace, arguing opposite direction. 1963, wallace journeyed harvard assure incredulous student audience alabama “good race relations.” speech, blamed immoral yankee soldiers presence light-skinned black people alabama.bob zellner attest firsthand wallace’s absurdities harvard’s memorial hall. mr. zellner, son alabama klansman, joined student nonviolent coordinating committee 1961 became first white field secretary. macedonia missionary baptist church, mr. jones praised pulpit one alabama’s civil rights heroes. 50 years ago, astonished wallace singled lectern harvard, discovered alabama rebel followed north. “oh, know you,” wallace said, labeling mr. zellner troublemaking jailbird question put wallace alabama’s police brutality murders civil rights workers.“alabama always victim’s complex,” mr. zellner told email. “wallace always ‘sending message’ elite, pointy-headed rich people ended turning one group little people little people helping rich get richer. worst available candidate, radical, would always get attention, highest ratings.”i never met mr. zellner sought daphne. were, two native sons heart dixie, bound hope part standing-room-only crowd mr. jones said represented “a shining alabama way always supposed be.” audience equally composed black white, young old. many whites crossover republicans? that’s question determine whether alabama sends first truly new south figure washington.like national republican party, alabama’s microcosmic version trump world split along class lines. even allegations mr. moore’s predatory sexual history dropped, mr. jones seemed whittling mr. moore’s double-digit lead assuring upper-class republicans confederate ancestors would recognize “honor compromise civility.” vigorous democratic campaign decades and, perhaps prophetically mr. trump, wealthiest republican enclaves like mountain brook near birmingham fairhope mobile bay covered jones lawn signs. less affluent suburbs highly educated professionals, like vestavia hills hoover near birmingham, follow pattern.i asked two prominent fairhope residents wealthy peers would vote. one, liberal, said neighbors mobile bay’s fashionable eastern shore would claim support mr. jones secretly vote mr. moore, man would invite homes.another, conservative, said “most republican friends say going vote jones” mr. moore would shame state. local republicans finally split, predicted half would vote mr. jones half might stay home. “that would right, too,” mr. jones told later described conversation.but things complicated mr. moore wounded. republican leaders rural counties urging voters ignore allegations nearly 40 years ago don’t involve forcible rape. alabama’s eccentric state auditor, jim zeigler, even assuring evangelicals stick mr. moore good faith many women bible, including mary, mother jesus, married older men.so alabama republican party horns another dilemma. republican leaders washington swamp telling dump mr. moore. local trump supporters telling ignore “fake news” stand alabama. mr. strange lurking wings, feeding speculation could save party’s respectability mr. moore steve bannon write-in candidate. split moore loyalists strange write-ins would hand election mr. jones, something mr. trump ill afford roughing took tuesday.until now, moore campaign believed alabama’s brand glittery sideshows would, sooner later, summon mr. trump’s inner showman would sweep push mr. moore top. would spoil dream alabama’s embattled democrats mr. jones might pull would biggest political upset since populist “big jim” folsom rustic strawberry pickers beat “big mules” u.s. steel black belt plantations 1946. (mr. trump spoken moore allegations, press secretary said mr. trump believes mr. moore quit race “if allegations true.”)for next month, mr. moore’s disappearing inevitability, mr. jones’s hope-based insurgency strain have-not republicans debated every day state’s meat-and-three restaurants. mr. trump, given baggage freewheeling defiance alabama voters, would well watch cautiously. mr. zellner attest political theater tricky here. alabama voters don’t mind spotlight, matter bad makes look. common president.
lose-lose life female comedian 21, first comedy festival — sort of. performing five people. wasn’t getting paid. badge said “artist” it, near people admired long made feel important, like “real” comedian.at party, ran one producers festival, man early 30s. “thank much putting festival!” said him, maybe bit over-excited. “i saw roommate’s set breakup. feel bad him.”“oh, good!” replied — asked would sleep friend. split second, transformed real comedian groupie. said thanks, walked away.often male comedians, women seen part reward success. exactly studs developing years thrilled sex part comes along recognized talents are. fair enough. leave us, female peers colleagues? (we know leaves least them: cringing horror uncertain proceed certain red-haired comedian gets naked front them.)my first approach navigating world try desexualize — one guys, quite that, least something like little sister. didn’t want seen “female comedian,” tried write jokes didn’t appear come distinctly female point view. wore hoodies jeans stage, prompted one male friends say — wearing stained shirt tattered jeans — “you know, marcia, could dress every while. maybe brush hair sometimes?” took joke. could done otherwise? could worse female comedian seen sense humor things?but while, started seem approach wasn’t serving well. young comedian, desperate mentor. friends begun make money got start someone clout taking road open them. yet every man talked seemed either alarmingly flirtatious, uncomfortable interacting women determined keep arm’s length. even seemed offended presented sexually unavailable. (once told male friend considered older brother, told “gross” “never say again.”) people bad men? no. mean would never give chance? no. masturbate front me? also no. wish could transform man would see comic potential sexual partner, type woman would make trouble? yes.i tried shrug off. didn’t matter men determined see certain way didn’t like me, thought. always worked hard would continue to. anyone thought differently committed misunderstanding me, nothing could control that.but fact need liked comedy given initial shot. sense successful men would want work one reason began internalize self-doubt talent.what’s young, funny girl dreams do? comedians, attempt take identities turn careers others hear truths, relate own. aren’t bound rules professions, demand decorum separation work outside it.for women business, question draw line male colleagues complicated. don’t want reactions instances sexism even sexual harassment affect viewed community. speak feel men comedy crossed line humorless downer — say nothing accused betraying sisterhood.to bring work different rules male colleagues disturb irreverent, never-serious fantasy world male comedians created around themselves. challenges sense people sharp observant — could missing something right front them? some, becomes, perhaps subconsciously, easier women around professional capacity expect better behavior creative men. indifference toward mistreatment viewed unfortunate side effect necessary art challenging taboos laughter.i fortunate enough pursuing comedy time women coming onto scene, i’ve begun see concerted effort view one another competition, rather community — feel threatened new, talented woman town, instead excited, approach kind camaraderie men always one another.with time, i’ve also become outspoken feminist. 25, started embracing point view woman, using feminist humor form catharsis also form armoring myself. i’ve stopped evaluating jokes based think men react them.but still times little ways undermined women feels like much conquer. instances feel pressure male colleagues nice, always “let things go.” fear won’t given room fail. fear identified complainer speaking mind problems see community around me. keep showing up, continue so. hopefully, week, least fewer unexpected penises.
saudi arabia comes hezbollah lebanon stunned nov. 4 prime minister, saad hariri, speaking saudi arabia, delivered halting resignation speech. mr. hariri said left beirut feared assassination. placed blame long-distance resignation iran main ally lebanon, hezbollah.in days since, saudi arabia accused hezbollah plotting kingdom ordered saudi citizens leave lebanon. threats top saudi officials causing new turmoil tiny country complicated sectarian politics, failed power-sharing arrangements long history foreign meddling.since arab uprisings 2011, lebanon largely avoided conflicts sweeping middle east. even war raging syria, lebanon’s much larger neighbor, generally left country unscathed. calm threatened trump administration saudi arabia sunni arab allies set sights hezbollah patron, iran.why would saudi leaders risk new conflagration? see way make common cause washington targeting hezbollah, one iran’s effective allies. president trump consistently singled iran’s support hezbollah groups washington considers terrorist organizations.but saudi arabia already overstretched. war houthi rebels yemen drags on, diplomatic dispute qatar remains stalemate, too. saudi leaders think score easy victory lebanon hezbollah, another misjudgment adds dangerous combustible moment middle east.hezbollah part lebanon’s national unity government formed late 2016 mr. hariri prime minister. iran saudi arabia — views protector lebanon’s sunni community — blessed power-sharing agreement.hezbollah agreed deal wanted avoid conflict lebanon direct energy toward syrian war, fights alongside government president bashar al-assad. leader strong ties sunni arab states west, mr. hariri provided hezbollah political cover continued dominate lebanon.the militia’s important role fighting syria made powerful ever. mr. hariri’s resignation exposes hezbollah allies lebanese government harsher united states sanctions, potential war israel even economic blockade led saudi arabia sunni arab allies, similar one imposed qatar.hezbollah, founded 1980s civil war israeli invasion, country’s dominant political military force. unrealistic saudi leaders trump administration expect supplanted popular lebanese groundswell removed foreign military force without causing catastrophic damage lebanon.saudi arabia’s new ruler, king salman, son designated heir, crown prince mohammed bin salman, pursuing far aggressive foreign policy previous saudi rulers. bolstered mr. trump’s support kingdom conflict iran. iran’s ally, mr. assad, essentially civil war syria, saudi arabia looking contain iranian influence elsewhere. lebanon tempting target.the saudis also emboldened recent outreach shiite factions iraq, especially nationalist cleric moktada al-sadr, visited kingdom july met prince mohammed. saudis hoping cultivate mr. sadr shiite leaders counterweight iranian influence iraq, especially ahead parliamentary elections next year.but saudis won’t able find sadr lebanon, political figure offer serious alternative hezbollah iranian influence shiite community.since end lebanon’s civil war 1990, hezbollah entrenched largely shiite areas southern beirut southern lebanon. iranian support, opened schools hospitals, provided business loans fielded candidates parliamentary elections. also extended military capability, deploying thousands missiles along border israel.in february 2005, rafik hariri, billionaire construction tycoon lebanon’s former prime minister, assassinated bombing beirut. death deprived lebanon prominent sunni leader — saudi arabia lost important lebanese ally. mr. hariri’s death, son saad took father’s saudi-based construction empire sunni political mantle lebanon.in summer 2006, hezbollah fought monthlong war israel, ended draw increased militia’s popularity across muslim world. early 2011, hezbollah’s standing began wane united nations tribunal indicted several members mr. hariri’s assassination.if mr. hariri’s killing first salvo proxy war iran saudi arabia lebanon, subsequent battles also go riyadh’s way.in may 2008, hezbollah broke post-civil-war vow turn weapons lebanese factions. time, lebanon mired political stalemate united states- saudi-backed government — included sunni, christian druze parties — hezbollah allies.hezbollah infuriated government decision outlawed underground fiber-optic communication network, critical success 2006 war israel. hezbollah’s leaders sent hundreds fighters largely sunni neighborhoods west beirut. overpowered sunni militiamen seized offices media outlets political rivals, including mr. hariri.hezbollah’s success alarmed sunni arab states saudi arabia toyed idea sending arab military force intervene lebanon. prince saud al-faisal, saudi foreign minister time, asked visiting american diplomat whether united states nato could provide equipment, logistics “naval air cover” assist army, according classified american diplomatic cable disclosed wikileaks. prince faisal warned washington hezbollah’s actions would lead “iranian takeover lebanon.”years later, saudi leaders organized similar force wage war yemen, houthi rebels allied iran. day mr. hariri’s resignation, front page saudi-owned pan-arab newspaper declared, “hariri departs hezbollah’s republic.” subtext clear: without prominent sunni leader, lebanon hezbollah’s full control — fair game latest battle iran.
god, jesus vietnam arrived vietnam early february 1967 assigned first battalion, first marines. falling away church midteens, i’d religious reawakening parris island, found much need god’s mercy got none drill instructors. took renewed religious fervor vietnam me, soon got know battalion chaplain, jesuit priest, pretty well.many months later, november, battalion operation near dmz. night approaching, digging father lyons came by. conversation, still remember vividly, went something like this:“hello, corporal ehrhart. how’s going?”“not bad, father,” said. “can’t complain.”“you know, corporal, don’t mean put spot, miss talks used first got here. faithful catholic boys,” said laugh.“things change, father.”“what happened, corporal ehrhart? what’s wrong?”“what’s wrong, father? take look around. you’re asking what’s wrong? look, i’m sorry, sir. i’d rather get it.”“you talk me, son. that’s i’m for.”“man man?”“of course. making officer wasn’t idea.”“father, enlisted, thought right thing. thought right country — gonna help vietnamese, like that. really believed it. guess sounds pretty corny, doesn’t it?”“not all, son. want believe we’re right thing.”“well, don’t believe anymore. don’t know believe, sure don’t believe that. we’re anybody good around here, fool see that. well, anyway, thing is, i’d be, going chapel every week praying god forgive i’m doing, knowing time gonna go thing next day. father, god worth salt isn’t gonna buy minute. got could almost hear praying: ‘don’t hand crap again, ehrhart. don’t bother unless you’re serious.’ awhile, every time i’d try pray, there’d voice.”“god’s always ready listen, son. he’s always ready comfort people like us, still is. really don’t mean preach sermon you, mustn’t let fear keep him.”“father, that’s right. can’t say you’re sorry, go deliberately keep stuff again. got business telling guys like it’s o.k. deal like that.”“i’m saying it’s o.k., corporal ehrhart, never have. can’t presume judge men. boys much part jesus’ flock anybody else. maybe you’re part cares most. jesus broke bread publicans sinners, didn’t he? less, still priest?”“well, you’re look us sheep, come got that?” pointed m-16 father lyons held.he looked weapon shook head slowly. “i’d happy carry one these, hope never use it,” said, “but i’m afraid vc don’t make exceptions catholic priests.”“i understand that, sir, that’s point. you’ve got excuse. colonel gravel’s got excuse. general westmoreland’s got excuse. president johnson’s got excuse. i’m earlobes everybody’s excuses. either you’re christian, you’re christian. there’s nothing ambiguous ‘thou shalt kill.’ ”“you’re right, course,” said father lyons. “but it’s simple. nobody’s perfect, son. we’re human beings. god made us image, knows we’re going fall. that’s jesus christ about.”“that don’t get it, father. guys believe you. trust you. tell ’em they’re gonna forgiven, keep praying shooting praying shooting, thinking they’re gonna go heaven. think god gives big rat’s ass communism democracy domino theories? hope high heaven ain’t god, we’re whole lot trouble is.”“corporal ehrhart, ever thought applying discharge conscientious objector?”“oh, no. way. end portsmouth naval prison 20 years? i’ve got enough trouble is. i’ve got four months go cesspool, i’m outta here.”“but you’re really troubled, maybe help you. talk colonel gravel.”“listen, father, said could talk straight you, am. me, i’m trusting keep yourself. i’ve got good record, want keep way. it’s gonna hard enough live rest life. get drummed service top that? i’m gonna hang albatross around neck. no, sir.”father lyons sighed deeply. “well, that’s decision,” said. “if change mind, let know. think this, you? don’t let men god’s name turn away god’s love. fail live god asks us doesn’t mean won’t forgive us. it’s god’s world, all. knows we’re against.”“well, that’s heck way send somebody sea, isn’t it, sir? knock hole bottom lifeboat, tell ’em, ‘do best can, folks. good luck.’ ”“i’m afraid can’t seem find right things say you, i?”“i guess not, sir. i’m sorry. really — it’s nothing personal. you’re nice man, father.”“i’m sorry, too, son,” said father lyons, voice sounding tired lonely. “i don’t answers. god works mysterious ways sometimes, suppose. let know change mind.”but change mind. stage life, c.o. didn’t mean “conscientious objector.” first two letters “coward.”later operation, lost dog tags. got back battalion, company clerk make new set. line religion, originally read “ucc” united church christ, put “none.”i still dog tags. i’ve spent 50 years wondering life would different courage take father lyons offer.
travis mills never quit belgrade, me. — golden day late summer, town’s general store stood dozen veterans missing arms legs. wore high-tech prostheses made look superhuman.i wanted throw arms around them. wanted bake pizzas. instead, told silence form respect. really didn’t words.these vets would tell they’re superhuman. “i don’t think challenges life greater anyone else’s,” travis mills says. “i’m thankful able serve country.”but mr. mills, served 82nd airborne division, reason wounded veterans hometown, belgrade, me., first place.on april 10, 2012, third tour duty afghanistan, mr. mills placed backpack ground. mine lay surface. “the backpack touching dirt took,” says. “such simple act war. world erupted. saw flash flame heard huge ka-boom.”only five soldiers iraq afghanistan wars survived loss arms legs. mr. mills one them.his journey back day tells story one man returning life. it’s also story small town transformed, it, given new hope wounded soldiers families.maybe mr. mills already radar. autobiography, “as tough come,” best seller. movie works, adam driver mr. mills sylvester stallone unsinkable father-in-law. documentary, “travis: soldier’s story,” available netflix.i first met mr. mills at, places, writers’ conference california. even though come small town, we’re authors, we’d never met before.he told project transform old estate place wounded veterans families gather, free charge, week community conversation shores lake maine. once, said luminous grin, owned elizabeth arden.everyone town knows old arden estate. 1930s 1970s called maine chance resort, glamorous home cosmetics magnate kind betty ford center day, place society ladies hollywood celebrities, among others, could escape summer dry out. judy garland stayed there. mamie eisenhower. elegant mansion hill lake essential part town’s economy, mention essential part mythology.but maine chance fell disrepair. tattered shell overlooked arden cove long pond. dirt path leading woods still marked “elizabeth arden road” old maps, virtually impassable except mountain bike a.t.v.on sunny saturday october, new travis mills foundation center wounded veterans held open house, elegant old grounds full vets families.“look, v.a. best can,” vietnam-era mess sergeant told me, waited line photographs taken mr. mills. “but stays forever, you’ve served. you’re never same. people need places like this, places vets feel like they’re alone.”now, rooms graced celebrities yesteryear like lilian gish ava gardner edna ferber, wounded veterans families place. made possible support donors, including barbara bush foundation, wayfair new balance — charisma mr. mills.i left open house wearing bracelet imprinted mr. mills’s mantra: “never give up, never quit.” later, took bike ride woods along old elizabeth arden road. headed deeper deeper woods, road deteriorated wasn’t much gnarled footpath shoulders mcgaffey mountain.at one particularly difficult hill, got bike began walking it. met mr. mills, hadn’t given much thought fact two arms two legs, one ever tried kill me, millions americans given lives make life possible. thinking now.and then, one side path, saw single grave, surrounded beaten split-rail fence. put bike walked woods look it.“john rogers,” said. sgt. continental line. revolutionary war. 1756-1849. small american flag fluttered stone.i certain alone old elizabeth arden road. there, heart deep maine forest, well-tended grave. someone me, remembered.
yard rage: rand paul assault senator rand paul, republican kentucky, tackled neighbor riding lawn mower month, initial assumption politics. necessarily. likely yard waste, developer gated community neighbors live told louisville courier-journal.“this festering years,” said. best guess senator paul, libertarian believer property rights, provoked incident blowing lawn trimmings yard alleged assailant, rene boucher. errant tree branches may also root things — pun intended.of course, don’t-tread-on-me society, landscaping disputes neighbors common dandelions. much fertilizer, little grass-cutting new trees blocking sunlight light fuse. even many vines growing wrong side fence offend. mention noise, may attributed attack senator, given frequent mower riding. 2015, told us weekly found therapeutic.in years weekend homeowner long island, i’ve alienated beloved neighbor one side yew tree trimmed keep covering chimney. agreed it, man hired lopped much.then, neighbor cut back pine branches hanging driveway, dragged mass dying bamboo trash pile someone’s curb shield view floodlight car. animosity caused guerrilla landscaping ended removed offending wall organic detritus invested tasteful latticed fence stop whining.at least didn’t back car me. that’s landscaper 1997 claimed martha stewart discovered erecting illegal fence harry macklowe next hamptons property. already feuding mr. macklowe, real estate magnate, winning ruling village zoning board accused trying “suburbanize area inappropriate dark greenery.” put dark greenery anyway, managed rip several plants injunction stopped her. lawsuits went years.another celebrity yard war involved julie newmar, who, los angeles times reported 2004, egged house jim belushi. among biggest gripes: additions home kept sunlight garden.if good fences make good neighbors, entitlement, seems, makes bad ones.blocking view another cause arboreal animosity. larry ellison oracle news 2011 suing san francisco neighbors letting privacy trees grow despite city’s tree dispute resolution ordinance guidelines. eventually settled, wall street journal jumped media birdbath called “full-blown spectacle.”more recently, kauai, hawaii, mark zuckerberg rankled locals building legal wall blocked ocean view road and, even claimed, breeze. one neighbor told local paper wall “oppressive.” others made unfair comparisons president’s proposed wall mexico.later, mr. zuckerberg file lawsuit sort ancestral land rights issues 700-acre property, neighbors took offense one local elected official told press, “you don’t initiate conversation filing lawsuit.”but also don’t initiate conversation assaulting neighbor. senator paul six broken ribs injured lung.nearly week incident, assailant jail $7,500 bond, reason attack remains anyone’s guess.my it’s yard politics.“often kind dispute control anything else,” said barri bonapart, bay area lawyer specializes tree law stop client view war buying gun. “if you’ve fired job, family conflicts serious health issue, common response fixate things believe something about, even turns delusional.” also thinks conflict opportunity find solution.but thursday, assailant, retired anesthesiologist, pleaded guilty misdemeanor assault charges otherwise remained, well, mum.his lawyer insisted attack wasn’t political trivial matters. jim skaggs, developer sold men homes, agreed noted senator dislikes community’s property rules. republican strategist said cnn coastal elites fail understand “the leaf-blower wars take place across middle america.”is lesson bizarre story? one might watch back month blowing leaves. also watch you’re blowing them.
elite colleges hide cash last week, republicans congress proposed tax wealthy private-college endowments part make-or-break tax bill. new tax, passed, would bring estimated $3 billion 2018 2027.university leaders shocked. republicans washington forgotten ivy league roots? proposal show — red meat conservative base resents cultural liberalism academia? seems improbable, all, narrowly divided senate would actually pass tax endowments.but would mistake dismiss move partisan pandering. democrats also proposed state-level endowment taxes connecticut massachusetts, homes nation’s wealthiest schools.it’s increasingly bipartisan view elite private colleges islands wealth. there’s good reason that: it’s true.an investigative report week new york times, based leak offshore financial records known paradise papers, revealed dozens wealthy college endowments use caribbean islands offshore tax havens investments.endowments already tax exempt, increasingly worked private equity hedge funds borrow additional money invest. endowments pay taxes money earn way related educational mission — unless hide money help offshore investment corporations.private colleges universities increased endowments spectacularly aggressive fund-raising kinds investment tax-avoidance techniques. stanford university, one schools found use offshoring, increased endowment $18 billion 2012 $2 billion 1977. harvard’s endowment grew $32 billion (in inflation-adjusted dollars) $6 billion period.the problem enormous endowment growth private institutions used resource boom provide greater benefits public. stanford case point. despite increased endowment tenfold, stanford still enrolls 1,600 new freshmen every year — approximately number new freshmen enrolled annually 1970s. result, stanford spends $55,000 year every full-time student, endowment. that’s ninefold increase since 1970s adjusting inflation.harvard, princeton yale spend even greater sums per student endowments.it’s true number wealthy universities begun increase generosity undergraduate financial aid, essentially offering free college, room board lowest-income students. that’s good thing, qualified low-income students receive zero financial aid wealthiest colleges never admitted. according stanford economist raj chetty, top 38 private colleges today enroll students top 1 percent nation’s income spectrum bottom 60 percent. basically, wealthy colleges end spending low-income students drop bucket compared could doing.america’s top public universities, hand, substantially increased enrollments since 1970s despite shrinking state funding. also tend enroll low-income students much higher rates. university california, berkeley, enrolls low-income students entire ivy league.it would easier turn blind eye increasingly lavish exclusiveness ivies didn’t come great public expense. three tax breaks related endowments come cost nearly $20 billion reduced federal tax revenue annually. $20 billion captured federal revenue instead, would provide nearly enough funds double federal pell grant program low-income students.the answer necessarily tax endowments, though fully tax exempt since 1984. wealthy private colleges want endowments remain tax exempt, need start providing much greater public benefits. obvious place begin substantial increase undergraduate enrollment, especially underrepresented students.there marked increase anxiety cost value college degree. wealthy colleges could help assuage enrolling many students walks life. certainly afford so.
paradise papers abandon ship.
socrates age trump athens — socrates condemned death court fellow athenians 399 b.c., friends arranged escape. money bribe prison’s guards understood authorities would quite happy see troublesome philosopher flee exile.all needed socrates agree. refused, arguing lived law would violate now.my father told story young understand. remembered — maybe mattered — famous man chose die obeying law important living. reading socrates age trump adds another dimension story: responsibility personal choices affect society.president trump roughly age socrates died (70) stubborn. ends resemblance american president athenian gadfly.socrates lived life endless examination good true right, seeking neither office wealth; mr. trump know-it-all demagogue treats highest office right. socrates served city soldier war called upon; mr. trump played system — avoiding military service, exploiting legal loopholes connections, amassing riches. socrates said pursued knowledge knew nothing, people learn experts, follow crowd. mr. trump proclaims best everything gives crowd wants, order make his. belittles experts, even country’s foreign service. “i’m one matters,” declares.in arguing life jury 501 fellow citizens, socrates rejected charges corrupting athens’s youth creating new gods. refused make plea exile, saying rather punish city reward asking questions. death sentence handed down, accepted fate calmly. chosen live athens meant would respect laws even worked him, said.the united states president calls country’s judiciary “a laughingstock.” rails check authority, disagreeing investigations associates, demanding prosecution political rivals. lack interest constitution sworn uphold breathtaking.socrates’ rational arguments easily refuted charges him, secondary fact tried sentenced according law. process allow appeal.“both war courts everywhere else, one must obey commands one’s city country, persuade nature justice,” socrates tells friend crito, dialogue written plato, another friends pupils. law, socrates argues, provides two alternatives: citizens either use persuasion change it, must says.agreeing laws suit us option. choosing live athens raise children there, socrates shown words deeds agreed live accordance laws. violating would rejection said done throughout life. clinging life, words, would make living worthless.unable best socrates’ arguments, friends obliged agree him. hours given poison kill him. socrates uses time discuss one live, because, said trial, “the unexamined life worth living.”at time socrates’ trial, athens dangerous place principled citizens. five years earlier, city lost almost three-decade war great rival, sparta, harsh oligarchy imposed. reign terror, oligarchs ordered socrates four others arrest fellow citizen might executed. philosopher refused, escaped death oligarchy collapsed exiled democrats rebelled.the democracy followed unsettled, vindictive suspicious new ideas. socrates figure debate decades. 423 b.c., “the clouds,” comic playwright aristophanes lampooned making wrong appear right — inspiring later charges cost life. furthermore, socrates also taught younger man, critias, became one oligarchy’s leaders, saw reason prosecute him. socrates’ trial execution would prove indelible blot democracy’s legacy, leading intellectuals, too, prosecuted, including natural philosopher anaxagoras, left city accused “impiety.”directing probing provocative questions pompous self-righteous, sharing thoughts rich poor, socrates quintessential anti-populist. bound gain enemies quarters. knew risks. seen reason bow oligarchs, would compromise many, either.“no man survive genuinely opposes crowd prevents occurrence many unjust illegal happenings city,” told prosecutors jury. “it difficult avoid death, gentlemen; much difficult avoid wickedness, runs much faster death.”in 406 b.c., naval battle last athenian victory war sparta, athenians tried generals picking survivors sailors’ corpses (a violent storm prevented this). socrates, serving citizens assembly presiding committee, member vote trying men body. generals, six chosen return athens executed verdict that, along socrates’, later seen regrettable.mr. trump, hand, rode wave nationalistic populism power. presented man people shared struggles communion simplistic denunciations anyone outside supporters’ circle. common touch humility, pandering prejudice.choosing death dishonor unique one person, one era one society. person responsible one sees law important himself, even unjust, must ask: leader world’s powerful nation hold similar standard?ephemeral tweet storms voracious news cycles may cause us forget history judges protagonists contributed society. socrates’ shameful murder eclipsed majesty devotion institutions city sentenced death. this, turn, reflects well city — citizen. donald trump’s disdain truth institutions, chaotic words deeds, augur well country legacy. parents tell children him?
vacuity vice president donald trump asia plugging golf resort telling hosts “i never knew many countries,” leaderless united states week try president mike pence. make pastor pence.it’s problem pence sycophant chief, perhaps greatest bootlicker take residence naval observatory. little stunt, trump’s orders, flying halfway across country walk people exercising first amendment rights football game cost taxpayers pile. so. veeps expected slavish.nor overly troubled pence reportedly calls wife mother refuses dine woman alone mom. (angela merkel, bring chaperone.) ronald reagan called wife mommy.the big problem pence vast empty space ears articulation thoughts formed space. biblical bromides make ned flanders “the simpsons” sound like voltaire. mind closed rational thought outside theocratic construct, everything says comes like platitudinous mush.take last week. (please.) least, take part started sunday man using semiautomatic rifle murder eight children among 25 victims church texas. outrage stir conscience-stricken leaders something — anything — ensure never happens again.pence’s response? “we grieve stand resolve evil,” said. i’ll grant grieving part. resolve translated squat. best solution scourge mass killings, told heartbroken families texas, prayer.not even six weeks ago, pence similar answer massacre 58 people las vegas. radio interview, dwelled great people sang “god bless america” slaughtered civilian converted rifle machine gun. moving forward, pence offered suggestion: “i tell you, find comfort good book.”the host, storme warren sirius xm, asked pence could assured never seeing kind thing again. pence fumbled answer, said, “we’re united resolve end evil time.”but resolve. legislative action. executive action. nothing meek, passive acceptance great horror makes united states stand every civilized country. oh, since pence expressed resolve end evil las vegas, 900 americans lost lives guns.in texas week, pence told families, “we working leaders congress ensure never happens again.” that’s lie, surprising man wears faith sleeves. unusual pence. politifact rated 48 percent statements false mostly false. learned master.here’s administration actually doing: one first acts president, trump signed bill making easier mentally ill buy guns.pence sound insipid topic. tape emerged last year trump boasting sexual predator get away it, pence urged ticket mate pray. piety cover trump’s amorality.i’m people faith public life. left faulted intolerance express belief higher power religious tradition. i’m first catholic president, john f. kennedy, famously said, “i believe america separation church state absolute.” that, stands constitution.pence calls christian first, conservative second republican third. since taking oath office, he’s supposed citizen first. pence theocrat — one hasn’t new thought years — that’s sounds vacuous.as governor indiana, signed measure legalized discrimination gays made state pariah. pressure business community forced retreat. still, long record anti-gay actions prompted even trump joke pence wants “hang all.” white house denied quote.as jane mayer documented portrait pence new yorker, also ultimate corporate tool. koch brothers him. called climate change “a myth” helped plant fossil-fuel toadies crucial trump administration posts.pence learned gasbagging god talk-radio host, calling “rush limbaugh decaf.” it’s job requires someone fill hours empty air hours empty nonsense. vice president, refined role.
facebook ignoring anti-abortion fake news last year, weeks election, article site called mad world news began circulating around facebook. headline read “before applauding hillary’s abortion remarks, know one fact ignored.”in article, writer says wants expose hillary clinton’s lies late-term abortions. argues baby never needs aborted save mother’s life doesn’t cite sources studies, presents anecdotes opinion fact. midway story, shares illustration calls “partial-birth procedure” — procedure banned united states. it, describes doctor “jams scissors baby’s skull” “the child’s brains sucked out.”“don’t let lies kill another child horrific manner,” says, concluding piece. article engaged least 1.1 million times, making most-shared article abortion facebook last year, according buzzsumo, company tracks social sharing.last week, company’s general counsel appeared congress alongside counterparts twitter google testify company’s role distributing misinformation ahead 2016 presidential election. facebook says it’s taking “fake news” seriously. label “disputed” stories, brought independent fact-checking partners allows users report false articles.it’s clear whether attempts tackle misinformation work; critics called ineffective slow. there’s another problem, too. far, facebook public focused almost solely politics russian interference united states election. haven’t addressed vast amount misinformation unevidenced stories reproductive rights, science health.evidence-based, credible articles abortion reputable news outlets like new york times washington post didn’t make top list “most shared” articles facebook last year, according buzzsumo. articles site lifenews.com did.lifenews, one million followers facebook, one several large anti-abortion sites command hundreds thousands views single post. sites produce vast amounts misinformation; facebook page organization live action, instance, two million facebook followers posts videos claiming there’s correlation abortion breast cancer. stories often generate engagement content produced mainstream news organizations, said sharon kann, program director abortion rights reproductive health media matters, watchdog group. people facebook engage anti-abortion content abortion-rights content “disproportionate rate,” said, which, result company’s algorithms, means people see it.facebook’s current initiatives crack fake news can, theoretically, applicable misinformation issues. however, several human technical barriers prevent misinformation reproductive rights identified, checked removed — already slow — rate misleading stories.first, question what’s considered “fake news” site always black white. facebook says tackling sources fake news eliminating ability “spoof” domains deleting facebook pages linked spam activity. example, year facebook identified deleted 30 pages owned macedonian publishers, used push fake stories united states politics, alarms sounded sites country spreading misinformation 2016 campaign. (facebook says sites may taken terms-of-service violations.) anti-abortion sites different. mimic real publications, publish pieces real events alongside factually incorrect thinly sourced stories, helps blur line what’s considered news blog “fake news.”second, facebook says one key aims tackling fake news remove profit incentive, says “most false news financially motivated.” says hopes making difficult people behind fake news sites buy ads platform detecting deleting spam accounts, says major force behind spread misinformation.however, incentive people write content anti-abortion news sites facebook pages ideological, financial. anti-abortion, anti-science content isn’t written spammers hoping make money, ordinary people driven religious political beliefs. aim isn’t profit ads. it’s convince readers viewpoint: abortion morally wrong, autism caused vaccines climate change isn’t real.finally, public pressure influences facebook directs attention. facebook may focused fake news united states election now, efforts prevent spread misinformation buildup election practically nonexistent. took action intense scrutiny.now facebook fact-checking partners say focus “on worst worst, clear hoaxes spread spammers gain.” simply put, without increased pressure, facebook’s technical efforts human efforts, like fact-checkers’ trawling flagged content, make likely company, months come, seeking “obvious” flags fake news stories misinformation fueled real people financial incentive. us concerned misinformation around reproductive rights need make heard.the irish government says hold referendum next year whether relax country’s strict ban abortion. abortion-rights campaigners expressed concern role misinformation social media platforms like facebook lead-up vote, it’s far clear whether concerns listened to.curbing spread fake news easy task, facebook says cannot “become arbiters truth” fight fake news. least, company address continuing role inadvertently spreading false information issues go beyond united states election russia.
forgotten war forgotten graves jerusalem — unsettling neighbors jerusalem indians: afzal hussein shah, chulam muhammad, mansub ali. occupy lot street near home. pass no. 22, no. 24, instead no. 26 find rectangle grass rosemary shrubs. engraved two memorial stones names mentioned, along dozens others.i recently wrote book small war, mostly forgotten guerrilla conflict lebanon 1990s, participated israeli soldier. walked cafe writing, took pausing moment memorial. still stop every days. time do, presence, tangible absence, seems tell greater insistence something experience mine, bewildering century since britain captured city lost men 1917 — century that’s coming.on saturday, british commonwealth war cemeteries like one see ceremonies remembrance day, observance date armistice ended world war i. soldiers really remembered. faces motivations chulam muhammad comrades lost time.so know them? children british india, attached units like 124th duchess connaught’s baluchistan infantry. many muslims; others hindus sikhs. traveled far home fight islamic empire ottoman turks palestine. must expected, least hoped, make back families. instead felled bullets, shrapnel disease, remained cemetery improbable creation jewish state.they could hardly imagined empire sent fight would vanish — hometowns would lose connection britain also india would become part different country entirely, pakistan. could known cause died would become nearly incomprehensible within span lives lived?only dead frozen old wars. soldiers walk away left watch everything change. like many families, mine stories effect. father remembers sitting small kitchen bronx great-uncle viktor, jew austro-hungarian empire joined german army world war i, performed feat bravery kaiser’s service received iron cross. viktor remained germany 1930s, country killed began trying kill him. united states, enemy war, became refuge. father met 1950s, nothing left world viktor’s birth. proud man little metal cross.in time israeli infantry company last three years 20th century, small long border war hezbollah, believed isolated hilltop outpost southern lebanon worth life friends. spring 2000 army withdrew, soldiers company blew outpost. worthless.seventeen years passed. old enemies hezbollah, heroes arab world stand us, syria battling muslims. they’re fighting alongside russians, development unthinkable years ago. states existed recent memory, like syria, iraq, libya yemen, longer really exist. egyptians, two generations israelis fought bitter wars, allies iran, old enemies like saudis aren’t quite enemies anymore. sunni jihadis wounded fighting assad regime spirited across border treated israeli hospitals.it’s today’s middle east would unrecognizable soldiers 1917, like buried neighborhood. today’s middle east would unrecognizable younger version reported draft office 20 years ago.the closest thing memorial little war exists field near israel’s northern tip. consists 73 jagged pieces limestone around pool, 73 names inscribed: avi ofner, dotan cohen, shai abukassis. soldiers died two helicopters crashed en route outpost neighboring army position lebanon one night february 1997. stones roughly size human beings, stand there, feels though men surrounding you, though you’re one them.the bases flying gone. remember going all. political lines shaped ended lives already blurring memories. stones say visitor passes pauses century later? visitor be?when pass indian cemetery, try think two three names imagine owners. wish weren’t here, they’d made home tell stories adventures faraway places: saw mediterranean dome rock, heard strange languages. instead lie neighborhood no. 26 be. loss meant world suggested less stone markers absence lot apartment building full families.they’re still telling story, though, pausing dozens times think know is. it’s soldier’s lesson, whether war afghanistan iraq lebanon western front: victory defeat never mean think, weapons illusions power, you’re simply borne way tides beyond grasp, anyone safely say future it’s nothing picture stand.
revenge obama coalition book “active faith: christians changing soul american politics,” former christian coalition leader ralph reed described 1989, year group founded, dark one religious conservatives. once-powerful televangelists jimmy swaggart jim bakker discredited lurid scandals. virginia new jersey, anti-abortion republican candidates lost gubernatorial races pro-choice democrats. “the number conservative votes congress dwindled barely enough sustain president bush’s abortion vetoes,” reed wrote. movement formidable start decade “seemed dead, cultural elites danced grave.”seeking resurrection, religious right turned local politics, investing bench republican party. “we training people effective — elected school boards, city councils, state legislatures key positions political parties,” pat robertson wrote 1991 christian coalition fund-raising letter. next year, sarah palin would get start winning seat wasilla city council, part wave evangelicals pouring local politics.if one threadlike silver lining donald trump’s election last year, it’s forced left emulate christian right’s extremely successful strategy building political power. decades, democrats paid far less attention local politics republicans. that’s part reason party lost almost thousand state legislative seats — 7383 total — course barack obama’s presidency. last year, citizens nationwide — particularly women people color — horrified trump’s victory decided run office communities. tuesday, many won.the important democratic victory tuesday gov.-elect ralph northam virginia. countless down-ballot triumphs across country, cinematic sweetness. new jersey, 32-year-old named ashley bennett disgusted john carman, republican county official, posted facebook meme said, “will woman’s protest time cook dinner?” though bennett told never thought running office, decided challenge carman, won. virginia, 33-year-old trans woman named danica roem defeated republican state legislator who’d introduced so-called “bathroom bill.” crystal murillo, 23-year-old mexican-american aurora, colo., gutted trump’s election, unseated trump-supporting city councilwoman.for past year, democratic party engaged angry internal debate identity politics, often framed opposition purely class-based appeal. times, feels like progressives doomed re-litigate 2016 democratic primary forever, tearing apart trump tears republic. squint tuesday’s results, sort see synthesis emerging obama hillary clinton’s theory emerging democratic electorate — democrats win appealing coalition white professionals minorities — bernie sanders’s focus grass-roots organizing economic populism.in ways election revenge obama coalition. educated white liberals joined people color elect amazingly diverse group candidates. latina single mother, michelle de la isla, elected mayor topeka, kan. wilmot collins, refugee liberia, mayoral race helena, mont. seattle elected first lesbian mayor, jenny durkan. year liberals bludgeoned demands abandon identity politics empathize resentful trump voters, election reminder white men needn’t center political universe.yet class politics identity politics aren’t really binary, even they’re sometimes presented way. murillo, example, first person family graduate either high school college, told affordable housing central issue campaign. overall, tuesday great night economic populists. week, democratic socialists america 20 elected officials among membership. tuesday, 15 local office, including 30-year-old marine veteran lee carter, unseated republican majority whip virginia’s house delegates.ultimately, main lessons tuesday probably strategic ideological. democrats need contest every seat can, matter red. (in wake washington post’s revelations alabama senate candidate roy moore’s past sexual relationships teenagers, it’s good thing there’s already strong democrat race.) also recognize young people crucial fortunes, make easy run. one person played key role democratic victories tuesday amanda litman, 27-year-old veteran hillary clinton campaign co-founded run something, trains supports progressive millennials seeking political office. (her group backed bennett roem.) millennial candidates, litman told me, “means millennial voters,” millennials largely left-leaning.run something part robust progressive grass-roots infrastructure emerged wreckage 2016 election. past year, membership democratic socialists america tripled, around 25,000. every congressional district country least two indivisible chapters, thursday indivisible launched new program mobilize chapters elections. past, right far better left channeling activist energy electoral politics, that’s finally starting change. perhaps resistance democrats religious right republicans. so, start local, won’t end there.
managing email multiple devices q. efficiently manage email three devices: computer, phone tablet? read, save, delete email three times, easily sync them?a. mail programs give choice two ways set account computer mobile device — either imap (internet message access protocol) standard pop (post office protocol). want keep mailbox sync across multiple devices, choose imap method.compared pop, imap newer technology managing messages handles checking mail account multiple devices much smoothly. imap, even though see mailbox mail program computer devices, imap messages actually live mail server. read, delete flag message, performing action mail server. mail apps devices see change view updated mailbox.in contrast, pop mail systems default settings download messages directly device checks time, deletes messages mail server. check mail computer gadgets, devices get deleted messages, may download newer ones — get deleted server, making mailboxes sync.as workaround, mail providers allow keep messages server without deleting automatically download, repeatedly delete message device. additionally, messages send stay sent mailbox computer device actually sending.most modern mail providers programs support imap find instructions setting imap mail accounts google’s gmail, microsoft outlook mozilla’s thunderbird program sites. apple’s icloud mail support pop uses imap default.
grab copies google emails, photos files q. decided leave google move another mail file-storage service. get mail, photos files stored google account?a. google download page use grab copies gmail messages, uploaded pictures google photos, calendars, contacts, google keep notes more. use it, log google account go takeout page; use gmail google’s “g suite” corporate services employer, talk company’s system administrator moving data.on takeout page, select google apps services use, add personal content one archive file. pictures download google photos exported format used uploaded images. move list apps services, click downward-pointing menu arrow get information exporting data particular google product.once made selections, click next button bottom page choose format archive — .zip format probably universal here, computers automatically open .zip archives. also select delivery method, including getting mail message link downloading archive, copying archive file microsoft onedrive dropbox folder.keep mind downloading data remove company’s servers. also remove google-based web activity delete google account. make sure archive need, log google account and, account preferences area, click “delete account services” link follow steps screen.
smartphones egypt bring biting humor also scrutiny new york times journalists use technology jobs personal lives? declan walsh, times’s cairo bureau chief, discussed tech he’s using.what tech important job correspondent egypt? dented, screen-cracked iphone center work. started foreign correspondent 18 years ago, kenya, carried small satchel held tape recorder, camera, address book, map perhaps shortwave radio. today squeezed thin black slab pocket.it taped interview leader hamas. shot video pictures drove across syria. helped navigate back streets cairo, hails cab ride home. hasn’t, however, replaced pen paper, although stack notebooks desk gradually shrinking. type faster times-issue 13-inch macbook air write. i’ve come realize that’s always plus: slow messy is, taking interview notes hand makes listen harder, edit notes go along.the key thing secure communications. many egyptians jail, many others risk arrest, encrypted apps like whatsapp signal become indispensable tools. egyptian police detained dozens gay people recently, called activist set interview, encrypted app. i’d called regular line, would hung up. apart that, digital lines simply better quality.the slack messaging app replacing email way times correspondents communicate editors, especially operation spread across world. might work editors london, new york hong kong, depending story time day.equally important, need know put technology away. paranoid corners middle east, pulling glowing laptop public great idea.how connectivity cairo region travel assignment? internet teeth-grindingly slow egypt, point yelling, ridiculously, screen deadline.in 2016, egypt ranked 146th 150 countries fixed broadband download speeds, according speedtest. worse country north africa war-torn libya. it’s surprising given major data cable, linking hundreds millions users, passes one sleepy egyptian village. problem stems lack investment telecommunications infrastructure locally since arab spring 2011 stifling state monopolies.we get around dongles connected 4g cellphone network, better, perfect. conflict zones like libya, covered offensive islamic state last year, turn bgan satellite data terminal thuraya satellite phone.but increasingly least patchy cellphone coverage even dangerous places, battle aleppo, syria, last year. brings immediacy found jarring: power facetime mom, instance, battlefront. feels normal, choices dictated less technology simply feels right.are egyptians joined hip smartphones? egyptians adore smartphones. people crazy-looking cases range dramatic ringtones — quranic verses conservatives, melodramatic pop tunes everyone else. lionel richie’s “hello” anything celine dion popular.the flip side smartphone mania also inspires deep paranoia among police ordinary citizens, known popularly “honorable citizens.” know people who’ve threatened arrest taking photo suez canal (after pyramids, one egypt’s famous features). photographer friend admonished “honorable citizen” trying take photo nile phone. accused spy.what favorite apps gadgets egypt? people facebook using google uber?egypt largest community facebook users arab world. it’s huge part many people’s lives, time public square dramatically shrinking. since president abdel fattah el-sisi came power 2013, protest outlawed news media largely thrall government. people turn social media talk politics, mock leaders hunt independent news. mr. sisi makes slip-up television, unfailingly flurry mocking memes flying facebook within hours. funny, dark — jokes country’s pitiful human rights record, instance.it’s western apps. anghami arab version spotify, souq.com big online retailer (and bought amazon year), there’s host apps tell pious muslims pray help read quran.on streets cairo, uber careem, ride-sharing app concentrates middle east, slugging market share. result, cab rides ridiculously cheap — dollars cross town.how egyptian government treat tech like social media western apps?with wariness frequent hostility.egyptian officials closely monitor facebook, twitter social media sites, posting irreverent comment land user court jail. young army conscript serving three-year sentence posting photo mr. sisi pair mickey mouse ears. since may, government banned 400 websites, including human rights watch, egyptian news site mada masr and, bizarrely, medium. earlier year, discovered security services seeking access real-time information ride-sharing customers — known inside uber “god view” — uber careem apps.all told, it’s pretty grim picture.beyond job, tech product love using daily life right why?i love bose noise-canceling bluetooth headphones, satisfying tech product i’ve started using one cancels rest. smart little alarm clock french designer philippe tabet sits bedside table, means longer need smartphone wake up.with phone banished another room, can’t mindlessly scroll twitter instagram 8 o’clock morning, enjoy tiny window mental peace. times editors need urgently, still call land line. sometimes, old-fashioned tech best.
guide holiday season’s biggest video games consoles it’s blockbuster season video games.with holiday season way, games industry pushing diverse lineup titles, new installments long-running franchises like activision’s call duty ubisoft’s assassin’s creed ea’s long-awaited star wars battlefront ii.but real crowd pleasers year may hardware. microsoft nintendo offering new upgraded consoles sony rereleased playstation 4 console powerful ps4 pro last year.the hottest hardware ticket nintendo’s switch console, offers gamers option plugging home pulling dock play go. even though released eight months ago, switch still popular supply expected problem end year.the arrival week microsoft’s new xbox one x console — featuring processing power 4k resolution, means defined picture quality — also expected make waves. console supports hundreds games xbox back catalog, including xbox one titles, well select xbox 360 titles.all expected fuel spending games, rose 7 percent $14 billion first half year period 2016, according npd group. “i expect growth continue edge holidays,” said mat piscatella, analyzes video games industry npd.here anticipated games products holiday season.activision’s best-selling first-person shooter game returns new version developed sledgehammer games.the last three games annual franchise used futuristic settings high-tech weapons, latest version returns world war ii setting. sledgehammer games enlisted help war historian, martin morgan, help create accurate weapons locations game, normandy landings june 1944 battle hürtgen forest. game follows young soldier texas makes way across europe unit.michael pachter, analyst wedbush securities, said call duty: world war ii would likely biggest game holiday season. projected would sell 20 million units cool $1 billion.released: nov. 3platforms: pc, playstation 4, xbox onethe last star wars battlefront, 2015, criticized dearth content, said joost van dreunen, chief executive superdata research, video game data market research firm.so sequel, ea listened closely players’ feedback, said matt webster, executive producer game. result: star wars battlefront ii nearly three times content previous game, heroes, maps vehicles, well redesigned space battles. ea also starting live service game fans get free content, including new playable characters, like finn captain phasma film“star wars: force awakens,” well new multiplayer maps tie release “star wars: last jedi” december.“the game movie coming support marketing efforts, easy gift grandma purchase holiday,” said mr. pachter.release: nov. 17platforms: pc, playstation 4, xbox onesuper mario odyssey first main mario platforming game — players must make well-timed, precise jumps across series platforms collecting power-ups avoiding enemies obstacles — nintendo switch.the game follows mario traverses dozens colorful worlds search beloved princess peach. odyssey less linear previous 3-d mario games, rewarding exploration introducing players new mechanics — example, mario use iconic cap "possess” characters objects, allowing freedom explore. worlds also expansive, including towering cityscape inspired new york.so far, reviews rapturous. “super mario odyssey joins short list think essential games play own,” said randolph ramsay, editor chief gamespot, video game news reviews site owned cbs.released: oct. 27platform: nintendo switchafter year 2016, action-adventure franchise returned game transports players ancient egypt.the game set much earlier — first century b.c., around time julius caesar cleopatra — previous assassin’s creed games, players explore beginnings brotherhood assassins, renegade group fighting freedom. game’s combat system overhauled, duel-style action previous games replaced lock-on mechanic means enemies don’t really wait attack.in addition, players pursue leave quests whenever like, instead finish quest return main world.released: oct. 27platforms: pc, playstation 4, xbox onenintendo’s console hit hard-core casual gamers alike. nintendo’s first new home console since wii u 2012, switch remains tight supply — demand slowing.reviews switch unanimously positive, praising streamlined design ability seamlessly switch home road without affecting games look play.“not two best games released year — legend zelda: breath wild super mario odyssey — it’s also impressive piece gaming tech works well home console portable machine,” mr. ramsay gamespot said.released: march 3price: $299.99nintendo’s snes classic console, debuted september, become another hit.the console miniaturized rerelease classic snes console 1990s, kind novelty box comes loaded 21 games, including super mario world, legend zelda: link past final fantasy iii.the console plugs directly tv via hdmi, players use current tech setup play childhood favorites.“the super nes classic surefire glorious trip memory lane,” mr. ramsay said.released: sept. 29price: $79.99microsoft hoping new xbox one x console become ideal partner 4k televisions promise better picture quality higher resolutions.microsoft touted xbox one x powerful console market, memory bandwidth allow better-looking games faster loading times.but device priced relatively high: $499, compared less $300 consoles like xbox one sony’s ps4. result, xbox one x may immediately mainstream gaming product, least far people 4k televisions.released: nov. 7price: $499
add international keyboards iphone q. new iphone little globe key keyboard like i’ve seen people’s apple phones. mine “happy face” key. this?a. along smiling face emoji pictographs, iphone display keyboard layouts dozens languages. add new international keyboard, “happy face” key used insert emoji characters text changes globe key. press hold globe key, menu pops display alternate keyboard choices — including emoji.if would like add keyboard designed use another language, iphone’s keyboard settings. tap open settings icon home screen, select general go keyboard. go keyboards select add new keyboard. add new keyboard screen, scroll list tap language want use. (if using keyboard app, also go right settings pressing holding emoji key seconds menu pops option keyboard settings.)when return using iphone keyboard mail, notes another text-heavy app, see globe key keyboard. press hold globe icon second two list keyboards appears — like emoji set international keyboard added.in addition keyboard settings shortcut (where adjust preferences auto-correction, predictive text typing-related tools), pop-up menu includes icons use switch “one-handed” keyboard part ios 11. select either left- right-handed layout, essential keys slide chosen side screen make typing thumb easier.
musical.ly, chinese app big u.s., sells $1 billion shanghai — chinese social media company build major network outside china taken fast-growing chinese upstart.musical.ly, video-based social network popular teenagers united states europe, sold $800 million $1 billion bytedance, company controls chinese news aggregator toutiao, according person familiar matter.the deal knits together toutiao’s 120 million chinese users roughly 60 million use musical.ly united states europe, ultimately linking platform china global one.musical.ly continue operate separate product, according statement deal, though two companies cooperate closely.despite dominance established social media services like facebook snap, musical.ly rose prominence among teenage tween audience enabling users record quick videos set music. young users app performed coordinated dance moves lip-synced music.since company branched types videos, including live streaming, even sought attract short-form video shows.for toutiao, musical.ly brings toehold valuable american european markets. ostensibly aggregator news content, toutiao evolved something like facebook newsfeed.the company uses artificial intelligence cater array posts videos users. grown increasingly video heavy, works aggregator entertainment country large number websites vie attract smartphone-addicted population.for musical.ly, toutiao brings huge user base china expertise attract users. musical.ly success overseas, company slow target chinese market founders say competitive radically different western markets.
uber hit new blow london panel says drivers aren’t self-employed london — uber suffered another setback biggest market outside united states british employment tribunal rejected ride-hailing company’s argument drivers self-employed.the decision friday, affirmed ruling issued last year, means uber ensure drivers britain receive minimum wage paid time off. creates problems common hiring model so-called gig economy relies workers formal contracts.companies argue labor practices increase flexibility sides hiring equation. critics counter system exploitative deprives employees important safeguards like unemployment insurance.the ruling second blow uber’s business recent months. september, london’s transport authority barred company operating british capital.in case employment tribunal, two men, james farrar yaseen aslam, challenged uber behalf group 19 drivers, saying service denied basic protections classifying self-employed. uber countered argument used around world: drivers independent contractors.“you hide behind technology, laws there, need obeyed respected,” mr. aslam, 36, said interview tribunal issued decision. “the impact ruling could affect thousands drivers, drivers millions workers across u.k.”“it means can’t exploited,” added.the acting chief uber’s british operations, tom elvidge, said company would appeal decision, either court appeal britain’s supreme court.the employment case one several challenges uber faces. although company expanded breakneck pace grown behemoth valued $70 billion, grapple allegations enough vet drivers, revelations used software evade gaze authorities issues.complaints aggressive workplace culture forced travis kalanick, founder company, resign chief executive year. succeeded former chief executive expedia, dara khosrowshahi, displayed conciliatory style.as part softer approach, mr. khosrowshahi went charm offensive last month effort win london transport authorities. uber appealing london ban, declared company “fit proper” operate city. uber allowed continue operating city final ruling made case.mr. khosrowshahi’s shift tone comes crucial time. uber aiming initial public offering 2019, working securing multibillion-dollar investment japanese conglomerate softbank.as part push win customers drivers concerned uber’s reputation, company introduced new measures services, including allowing users add tips fares. uber also promoted efforts, particularly britain, provide drivers benefits like access insurance pensions.“essentially, outrunning employment law legislators,” said andré spicer, professor city university’s cass business school london. “it’s become like normal company, rather one able evade existing legal frameworks.”uber’s operations london crucial global expansion. company started operating city 2012, offers services dozens cities nationwide. 40,000 people drive uber british capital, company says three million customers used app london least past three months.uber’s arrival london has, however, set clash city’s famous black cabs. drivers centuries-old taxi system must pass exacting test known knowledge, requires memorization around 25,000 streets 100,000 landmarks. ride black cab typically far expensive using uber, cabbies complain lightly regulated.opponents uber argue able undercut rivals price largely employment practices, mean avoid paying costs contributions required permanent employees. company’s business model facing challenges across europe. region’s highest court expected rule year’s end case involving whether uber regulated taxi service, would make subject rigorous safety employment rules, digital platform simply connects independent drivers passengers.labor experts say laws countries failed keep pace advances technology rise gig economy. britain, example, main piece legislation regulates workers treated passed 1996.“the legislation old,” said susannah kintish, partner law firm mishcon de reya specializes employment law. “it came spice girls first hit. it’s way date.”
at&t deal puts trump’s antitrust cop center political storm washington — year ago, makan delrahim predicted at&t’s $85.4 billion purchase time warner would approved regulators. “i don’t see major antitrust problem,” mr. delrahim, law professor, said canadian television network.now, five weeks job top antitrust regulator justice department, mr. delrahim taken different position. department threatened block deal court unless at&t sells major assets.mr. delrahim’s position thrown surprising twist blockbuster deal, watched signs trump administration would handle giant mergers. wednesday, dispute spilled public conflicting versions justice department wants.in one account, agency offered two paths: sell turner broadcasting, including cnn, offload directv, according several people companies. another, at&t offered sell cnn, according two officials agency.randall l. stephenson, at&t’s chief executive, said wednesday never offered sell cnn. thursday, appearing new york times’s dealbook conference, said company ready go court justice department.“to suggest selling key franchises business desired business plan makes business sense,” mr. stephenson said.the public spat put political cloud deal. president trump critical cnn deal. several democratic lawmakers called hearings determine whether politics played role supposed independent process.the justice department declined comment thursday.pushing at&t unload big part business get deal approved goes mr. delrahim’s history, antitrust experts say. past comments largely line free-market-oriented republican views, widely expected lenient mergers predecessors obama administration.“this bold,” said diana moss, president american antitrust institute, nonprofit generally favors stronger antitrust enforcement. “it signals willing consider anticompetitive effects big deals, remedy side would use structural remedies, would signal potential change policy.”in interview late last month, mr. delrahim strongly rejected idea white house tried could influence thinking. time, would discuss at&t’s bid time warner pending mergers.“all enforcement decisions based facts law. politics,” mr. delrahim said. “that would antithetical everything i’ve stood for.”mr. delrahim, 48, born tehran, family moved los angeles almost 10, around time islamic revolution. attended university california, los angeles, undergraduate went law school george washington university.after years corporate law, spent time aide capitol hill, working technology antitrust issues. president george w. bush later nominated top official justice department, focused international antitrust enforcement. time there, returned corporate law los angeles, representing numerous large technology, health telecommunications companies.in recent interview, said justice department need intervene company big, even monopoly. also said government startle business markets abrupt change approach antitrust legal theory.“there people think big bad,” said. “they don’t understand why, instinctive reaction big business days.” added dangerous go companies without clear evidence harming competitors.mr. delrahim said comments last year at&t time warner taken context. told lawmakers deal deserved thorough review. said could antitrust concerns company like at&t, controls distribution television content directv internet content mobile home broadband service, bought big media company.that view aligned left-leaning consumer groups pushed greater antitrust enforcement. news week justice department taking deeper look deal, democrats, including senator richard blumenthal connecticut, praised tough stance.“at&t time warner enormous test seeing online video disrupting dominant cable broadband providers,” said gene kimmelman, president nonprofit organization public knowledge antitrust official obama administration. “and would disaster consumers competitive landscape developments wiped diminished approval deal.”for years, though, antitrust officials generally approved mergers companies competing businesses. known vertical mergers, at&t telecommunications company, time warner creates media content like movies, deal would fit category.problems mergers generally resolved settlements known consent decrees, restrict new company’s behavior operations.mr. delrahim skeptical consent decrees, especially demands “behavioral remedies.” obama administration approved comcast’s purchase nbc universal 2011 stack behavioral requirements, including requirement comcast make nbc content available competing cable streaming services.during interview last month, mr. delrahim said industries moved fast remedies effective.“we major parts industry regulated consent decrees justice department,” said, referring settlements behavioral remedies.“i don’t think i’m smart enough figure market consumer behavior 10 years now, 20 years now, 40 years now, 100 years now,” continued. agency, added, still overseeing consent decrees century old.instead, mr. delrahim said, prefers so-called structural remedies, like forcing company sell assets approving merger. said ultimate test healthy competition consumer welfare test, looks whether consumers benefiting lower prices options.mr. kimmelman said justice department could concerned combined broadband, satellite media company could hurt competitors.the satellite service directv, example, reach american homes. potential concern, mr. kimmelman said, company may incentive withhold valuable time warner content like hbo, tnt cnn rival cable satellite providers streaming services. company could also make harder rival media companies like starz reach at&t customers.the justice department proposed various options meet mr. delrahim’s demands, according multiple people close discussions.in interview last month, mr. delrahim defended president’s criticism at&t’s bid. said mr. trump unfairly targeted remarks deals government officials allowed air opinions.“what’s interesting see president getting criticized commenting certain mergers senators write comments exact merger,” mr. delrahim said. “i find fascinating maybe new washington.”and insisted decisions would made independently, clear mr. trump totally mind.when arrived justice department late september, mr. delrahim received hat welcome gift. reads: “makan antitrust great again.”
legislator targets tech perks baltimore county district baltimore county public schools pursued one ambitious classroom technology makeovers united states. now, relationships technology vendors coming intensified scrutiny.a maryland state legislator said thursday state needed investigate whether industry perks played role awarding district’s technology contracts. lawmaker, senator james brochin, called maryland state board education conduct audit contracts.in 2014, district committed $205 million laptops students staff, millions since math language software. audit would cover device contract, awarded vendor whose laptop came third place district’s hardware evaluations.last week, article new york times examined baltimore county, nation’s 25th-largest public school district, case study tech companies court cultivate school leaders. baltimore sun recently written former district superintendent’s travels out-of-state events.the times found tech vendors industry-funded groups paid meals rooms fancy hotels school leaders, well travel conferences promote district’s tech initiative. february, district’s former superintendent participated confidential meetings school tech vendors — companies whose contracts later increased.“evidence offered recent articles indicates digital education companies unrestricted access key decision makers baltimore county public schools and, turn, awarding contracts companies,” senator brochin, baltimore county democrat, said letter sent state officials. “this created illusion impropriety, thereby eroding public trust.”in response questions audit request potential conflict-of-interest issues regarding tech vendors, mychael dickerson, school district spokesman, said district “answered questions intend answer matter.”this past spring, district’s superintendent resigned without citing reason. email reporters last week, verletta white, district’s interim superintendent, wrote, “i believe conflicts interest” related district’s tech initiative.the push examination comes parents, ethicists legal experts calling greater transparency school-vendor relationships. “anything involves trips fancy hotels looked pretty closely school boards,” said james e. tierney, former attorney general maine lecturer harvard law school, “and decide whether ultimate users — kids — getting right products.”senator brochin said concerned baltimore county’s ties firm called education research development institute erdi. among services provided erdi, charges company $13,000 facilitate one three-hour meeting corporate representatives five superintendents school officials discuss products, according erdi membership rate card. erdi past paid superintendents $2,000 per conference covered travel conferences held hotels like four seasons baltimore.baltimore county’s previous superintendent received payments last year adviser company owned erdi, according district financial disclosure. times last week reported ms. white, interim superintendent, involved erdi events since 2013, provided guidance ed-tech companies. wednesday, baltimore sun reported ms. white paid $3,000 year erdi time.the district declined provide times list companies ms. white met erdi.
reddit bans ‘incel’ group inciting violence women reddit banned online community “incels,” men blame women involuntary celibacy sometimes advocate rape, part new crackdown forums glorify incite violence.on tuesday, incel subreddit disappeared internet forum replaced symbol gavel red background.a statement company emailed thursday said move line policy annnounced oct. 25 ban content calls violence physical harm."communities focused content users post content banned site,” statement said. “as nov. 7, r/incels banned violating policy.”the incel subreddit, 40,000 members, similar online sites promoting hate women scrutiny years. incel content closed week, tracked watchdog online community called inceltears, posted screenshots old posts call derogatory slurs women, examples misogyny comments justifying rape.an online petition called reddit ban incel community subreddit, noting elliott o. rodger, california man killed six people 2014 rampage isla vista near university california, santa barbara, firing bullet head, referred group “saint elliott.”mr. rodger left behind rambling history videos social media posts sites popular sexually frustrated men. one site, called puahate, “pick artiste hate,” mr. rodger expressed disgust women, questioning could resist charms.“one day incels realize true strength numbers, overthrow oppressive feminist system,” wrote. “start envisioning world women fear you.”reddit’s move group fell pattern companies, including facebook twitter, domain registrar services, ones banned white supremacy site daily stormer august, taken address violent content.“i view part broader movement,” danielle k. citron, university maryland law professor studied phenomenon online hate, said thursday. “that communities like daily stormer find troubling call violence, don’t want aid abet groups call violence.”it clear term incels coined, link misogyny violence women emerged sites incel communities gather.mary anne franks, professor law university miami, studied online abuse harassment, said read mr. rodger’s manifesto reminded george sodini, pennsylvania man shot dead three women pennsylvania 2009, leaving behind online diary detailed loneliness lack success women.“these men got angry women see depriving something entitled to,” professor franks said. “it trend online forums, legitimately reasons lash out,” speaking mr. rodger mr. sodini.last month, reddit initiated broader policy clarify rules content banned, first go subreddits nazi, racist white supremacist groups. move ban incels appears part wider sweep subreddits flushed years, ones encouraged people covertly photograph women street, one promoted rape, banned “inciting harm.”“whether particular ecoystem alternatively within alt-right itself, part online world growing rapidly,” heidi beirich, director intelligence project southern poverty law center, said. “misogyny shockingly frequent find web areas.”
twitter, facing another uproar, pauses verification process san francisco — tuesday afternoon, twitter added small blue check mark account jason kessler, move known verification indicates prominent person’s real account.the action quickly met outrage. that’s mr. kessler well-known white supremacist used twitter spread message organize rallies like unite right’s march charlottesville, va., torch-wielding protesters marched streets chanting racist rallying cries.across twitterverse, people including comedian michael ian black came company.by thursday morning, twitter announced would halting entire general verification program. yet another situation company make amends on, week accidental deletion president trump’s twitter account testimony washington russian agents used service last year sow discord.“the system broken needs reconsidered,” twitter’s chief executive, jack dorsey, tweeted thursday. “and failed anything it. working fix faster.”when twitter puts verified check mark next white nationalist’s name, company endorsing person? twitter trying figure thursday.“verification meant authenticate identity voice interpreted endorsement importance,” company said twitter. “we created confusion.”twitter originally began verifying accounts give high-profile individuals — celebrities, politicians, journalists others — way distinguish impersonators. blue check mark since become something badge honor, signaling someone reached certain level importance.“it’s recognition. it’s simple that,” richard spencer, white supremacist verified twitter 2016, said interview. “the blue check mark useful.”the white nationalist movement flourished twitter, mr. spencer said platform behaving erratically toward community lately.“it seems non-algorithmic now,” said. “it seems like there’s one person doesn’t like tweet account one day, seems like judgment. it’s incoherent.”mr. kessler’s account — handle @themaddimension — remains verified. late wednesday, responded uproar tweet wondering still o.k. white, included poll people answer. thursday afternoon, gotten nearly 50,000 responses.
qualcomm agree deal broadcom? ask apple apple may anoint winner broadcom’s $105 billion bid qualcomm. dispute iphone royalties left qualcomm vulnerable opportunistic offer acquisitive rival. apple settles dispute, could preserve qualcomm’s independence — depends whether apple thinks bigger broadcom would slavishly devoted devices, surlier.qualcomm apple came blows royalties chip maker collects mobile gadgets, use technologies. actual payments aren’t disclosed, analysts generally peg $10 per phone. apple sued qualcomm told suppliers stop paying fees year, helped push qualcomm’s share price $10 per share, subsequent months, $54.84 traded last thursday, day broadcom’s interest reported.settling lawsuit might make broadcom’s bid $70 per share less compelling. analysts project apple sell around 250 million phones next year. agreed lower royalty payment of, say, $7.50 per phone, post-tax margin 85 percent, would yield almost $1.6 billion profit. put multiple 10, that’s worth $16 billion — roughly $11 per share. that’s catch-up payments previously withheld sums qualcomm might able claw back.should apple play along? depends chip maker considers malleable counterpart. broadcom’s chief executive, hock tan, said open renegotiating qualcomm contract company prevail. promise $3 billion annual cost savings merger defrays opportunity cost giving apple good deal. winning good graces tim cook, apple chief executive, might also result additional chip sales tech giant.whatever mr. tan says, though, priority likely maximizing returns new acquisition. big motivation acquiring rivals usually gaining heft customers, broadcom already derives 10 percent revenue apple. furthermore, lengthy antitrust process broadcom-qualcomm merger means might year mr. tan could negotiate properly anyway. iphone maker may prefer serfs smaller squeezable.
news shared twitter drive conversation, study finds years, investigating american media’s influence discourse required studying conversations homes, public square office corridors, try understand prompted them.but paper published thursday journal science offers new, albeit unorthodox, method: authors brought media experiment, persuading 30 outlets agree time publication stories researchers could track pieces affected discussion online.what found even handful stories mostly small publications boost twitter traffic topics race climate 63 percent course week, relative typical day’s traffic subject.“journalists, even small papers, appear quite substantial power affect national conversation politics policy,” said gary king, paper’s lead author director institute quantitative social science harvard university.to study media’s influence, researchers persuaded news outlets publish related stories one 11 broad policy topics randomly assigned weeks. studied twitter conversation topic days followed, compared week after.dr. king colleagues, benjamin schneer, florida state university, ariel white, massachusetts institute technology, spent almost five years study, first three years dedicated observing, learning building trust journalists. key getting board, said, limiting team’s involvement part process often arbitrary: timing publication.“in sense, you’re flipping coin already,” said, noting many non-breaking stories, publication timing subject whims editors news cycle.at times, publications retained right bow experiment, shelve stories publish wanted.the study without critics. creative may be, paper overstates conclusion, said kathleen hall jamieson, studies political communication director annenberg public policy center university pennsylvania.“is methodologically ingenious? yes. know whether findings substantively important? based disclosed information,” said.twitter one social media platform social media one venue national conversation takes place. tweets also hardly amount discussion, ms. jamieson said. many people simply share links twitter, offering, best, lines commentary.without seeing content articles tweets, it’s difficult judge study’s findings, said. (while authors provided names outlets participated experiment, withheld articles involved protect reputations publications.)to participated, though, experiment offered chance better understand influence, crucial issue media organizations.“when opportunity actually measure impact new way, really, really excited. core mission,” said jo ellen green kaiser, executive director media consortium, network independent news outlets whose members accounted majority involved study.while outlets researchers worked small, independent publications, truthout times, study included well-known outlets, too, including nation, progressive, ms. magazine yes! magazine, according authors. all, 33 outlets participated final experiment, though dozen participated earlier trial runs, designed differently. authors say publications participated part study.the researchers principally involved two points publication process: beginning end.each experiment began choosing one 11 broad policy areas, food, immigration, reproductive rights jobs, identified already interest news organizations.the researchers asked handful outlets volunteer collaborate, groups two five, stories choosing related topic. example, authors said, technology topic, group might decide write pieces uber drivers feel driverless cars.the researchers chose two-week window study discussion online, asking outlets publish stories either week, chosen random. would compare discussion twitter related topic week pieces ran week not.the stories, typically published tuesday, could come form, straight news, investigations, interviews, opinion pieces, videos podcasts. outlets treated differently researchers said that, far aware, involvement went unnoticed readers. awareness study varied outlet, editors reporters often informed.“we really get whole editorial teams board, often reporters knew, too,” ms. kaiser said.in end, authors conducted 35 experiments study year half beginning october 2014.the authors tried anticipate criticisms, too. many tweets created bots, acknowledged, found bot traffic consistent week, making essentially background noise. researchers also avoided weeks known world events, say planned presidential speech immigration, might influenced results.
uber 2.0: new c.e.o. wants put stamp company dara khosrowshahi wants make something clear: new uber look like company inherited.speaking publicly first time since became uber’s chief executive august, mr. khosrowshahi painted rosier vision future company. aim: escape shadow cast ride-hailing giant series scandals shook company core resulted eventual ousting former chief executive co-founder, travis kalanick.“the culture went wrong, governance went wrong, board went bad direction,” mr. khosrowshahi said conversation andrew ross sorkin dealbook conference thursday. “i think winning gives excuses bad behavior.”indeed, mr. khosrowshahi stepped role august, deal series scandals. employee attrition high, company’s board directors rife infighting, company faced fewer five federal inquiries business practices. and, moreover, brand uber stood taking beating. #deleteuber hashtag surged across social media earlier year, resulting 500,000 deleted accounts.now, mr. khosrowshahi trying put imprimatur company calls “uber 2.0.”he confirmed, first time publicly, uber working securing multibillion dollar investment softbank, japanese mega-conglomerate angling get american ride-hailing market. hinted pulling back uber’s long-espoused strategy spending enormous amounts money order gain market share certain areas.perhaps important, embarked apology tour sorts cities countries around world, trying repair damage done mr. kalanick contentious, bare-knuckled approach dealing regulators new markets.“i think generally immature deal dealt regulators,” mr. khosrowshahi said.he spent past weeks traveling london, uber facing threat banned, well brazil, uber narrowly escaped regulated like taxi service.he eschewed company’s history entirely. mr. khosrowshahi nodded passion took mr. kalanick get uber near $70 billion transportation behemoth today. mr. khosrowshahi said still talks regularly mr. kalanick would crazy rely mr. kalanick’s genius tenacity take company forward.but make mistake: uber mr. khosrowshahi’s company now, travis kalanick’s. mr. khosrowshahi said he’s made clear needs distance former c.e.o. job, well. that’s especially true wants make good goal taking company public 2019.“i’ve got put stamp company,” said. “we’re way.”
youtube’s rapid response partisans game news tragedy sunday afternoon, elmer t. williams’s wife told mass shooting taken place church texas, leapt action. first, skimmed handful news stories massacre. then, felt sufficiently informed, went home video studio, put trademark aviator sunglasses, hit record.roughly hour later, mr. williams, 51, popular right-wing youtube personality calls “the doctor common sense,” filmed, edited uploaded three-minute monologue sutherland springs church shooting youtube page, roughly 90,000 subscribers. authorities yet named suspect, didn’t deter mr. williams, black, speculating gunman probably “either muslim black.”later, shooter identified white man named devin p. kelley, mr. williams posted follow-up video. claimed mr. kelley likely bernie sanders supporter associated antifa — left-wing anti-fascist group — may converted islam. despite evidence claims, mr. williams argued passionately, saying photos mr. kelley circulating online suggested violent liberal.“sometimes, tell lot person’s picture,” mr. williams said.i came across mr. williams’s videos several hours massacre, one appeared prominently youtube’s search results shooting, alongside videos making unverified claims posted pages names like truthnews network patriotic beast.youtube long slapdash political punditry, recent months, certain type hyper-prolific conspiracist emerged dominant force. reacting quickly voluminously breaking news, rapid-response pundits — youtube equivalent talk radio shock jocks — successfully climbed site’s search results, exposed legions viewers far-fetched theories.in phone interview home houston, mr. williams told created 10,000 youtube videos eight-year period, posting many 20 monologues per day, racking estimated 200 million views.his hit productions included fact-challenged videos like “barack michelle obama come closet,” garnered 1.6 million views, “hillary clinton crack cocaine,” 665,000. admitted youtube’s partner program, allows popular posters earn money displaying ads certain types videos, claims made much $10,000 month channel.“i like call reporter reports news common person,” mr. williams said.whether motivated profit micro-celebrity, success sensationalists like mr. williams become vexing problem companies like facebook, twitter, google, owns youtube.these companies sort prioritize information users, built ranking systems boost news mainstream outlets stories less credible sources. algorithms gamed breaking news situations users work fast, uploading videos valuable minutes news breaks first wave legitimate articles videos appears.“before reliable sources put stories, it’s bit free-for-all,” said karen north, professor studying social media university southern california. “people business posting sensationalized opinions news learned sooner put materials, likely content found audience.”the phenomenon limited youtube. last month’s mass shooting las vegas, facebook safety check page featured story site called “alt-right news” made false statements gunman, google’s search results displayed conspiracy theory 4chan, notoriously toxic message board. last month’s terrorist attack new york city, trending topic page twitter briefly featured story infowars, conservative site popular among conspiracy-minded.conservatives argued youtube unfairly targets videos allowing liberal channels, young turks, post heated political commentary. dispute conscious gaming going on.“there absolutely strategy,” said paul joseph watson, editor-at-large infowars popular youtube personality 1.1 million subscribers. day texas church shooting, one mr. watson’s tweets appeared result google searches shooter’s name, although since disappeared.tech companies, already fire ease allowed russia interfere last year’s election, also vowed take harder stance domestic misinformation. twitter’s acting general counsel, sean edgett, told congressional investigators last week company would take steps keep false stories featured trending topic pages.“it’s bad user experience, don’t want known platform that,” mr. edgett said.youtube, whose community guidelines prohibit hateful threatening content, begun using artificial intelligence help identify offensive videos. conspiracy theories don’t announce themselves, machines can’t yet handle complicated business fact-checking.in mr. williams’s case, human intervention seems necessary. tuesday, shortly asked youtube questions mr. williams’s account, videos disappeared, profile replaced message saying, “this account terminated due multiple severe violations youtube’s policy prohibiting hate speech.”mr. williams, said recently left job operations manager hazardous materials plant focus full-time punditry, tangled youtube’s hate speech policies before. company shut one previous accounts similar infractions, claimed cost 250,000 subscribers lucrative income stream.“if youtube didn’t punish me,” mr. williams said, “i could easily making $30,000 month.”in statement, youtube said mr. williams’s account banned “as soon flagged us,” terms service prohibit repeat rule-breakers opening new accounts. also said terms prohibit advertising appearing videos featuring “controversial sensitive events, tragedies, political conflicts, sensitive topics.”even week’s crackdown, mr. williams branching out. sells cellphone ringtones website, considering starting paid streaming service. tuesday night, hours banned youtube, mr. williams posted video vimeo, another video-hosting platform. pledged keep insulting favorite targets — democrats, hillary clinton, barack obama — shy away controversy, matter policies said.“i don’t want youtube anymore,” mr. williams said. “it’s communist.”
bitcoin expansion table. least now. san francisco — long-running civil war design bitcoin appears now, one side fight acknowledged wednesday sufficient support virtual currency backers.the camp conceded hoping double number transactions could run network supports bitcoin, order keep transactions cheap fast.this expansion vociferously opposed many programmers working bitcoin project, worried expanding network quickly would make easier company government exert influence decentralized system.the group pushing expansion planned switch new version bitcoin software next week, would created split network likely wreaked havoc virtual currency.this planned split, though, called wednesday, companies proposing failed win significant support bitcoin community.in email, leaders several largest bitcoin companies said “unfortunately, clear built sufficient consensus clean block size upgrade time.”the price bitcoin shot immediately email went out, hitting new high, $7,800, retreating. price steadily climbing nearly 1,000 percent last year.the rising price attracted many new users, places like japan south korea big hedge funds, even authorities places like china cracked currency.all new people seeking access bitcoin run limit number transactions flow system every 10 minutes, put place bitcoin’s early years.because limit, network process around five transactions second. led delays network pushed price getting bitcoin transaction through.companies help process bitcoin payments pushing lift limit bitcoin transactions several years, arguing necessary bitcoin wants compete visa paypal.the opposing camp argued quickly expanding number transactions flowing network would mean large companies could track bitcoin transactions, taking power away individual users.the proponents keeping so-called blocks bitcoin transactions small said bitcoin viewed digital gold: secure place keep money, even can’t moved around quickly cheaply.many programmers working basic bitcoin software — so-called core developers — said would stop working bitcoin block size increased.they also complained companies pushing block size increase without properly consulting community.leaders sides bitcoin debate complained receiving death threats hacking attacks, top developers migrated toward virtual currencies.in august, outspoken proponents expanding bitcoin created version, known bitcoin cash, handle transactions traditional bitcoin.the price bitcoin cash gone since august, remains small fraction size bitcoin.on wednesday, companies pushing big blocks said calling plans order restore measure peace community.“although strongly believe need larger block size, something believe even important: keeping community together,” email said.the announcement said companies still believed increase size bitcoin blocks would necessary, willing wait community agreed way deal issue.the people opposed quickly expanding network say still wanted make easier cheaper use bitcoin. hope made possible new networks built top bitcoin, keeping bitcoin network secure decentralized.
confirm deny: jaron lanier maureen dowd: often get confused lead singer korn.jaron lanier: no, never. i’m often confused arnold schwarzenegger. i’m kidding.like others silicon valley, cards printed job title “visionary.”no, certainly never did.you got job application monica lewinsky.this ’90s internet really happening people yet, needed new executive assistant. put ad times fax number one faxes lawyers representing monica lewinsky. like, “is real?” told real.angela merkel turns on.you know, think she’s impressive. she’s actually kind interesting figure she’s suffering trying bring immigrants, time initial impulse to, suffered worse.al gore invented internet.confirm. packet-switched networks around long time. internet’s political invention. yeah, remembered much prominently creator it.elon musk another planet.no, he’s planet.facebook stupid human trick.i would say facebook end human tricks.wikipedia’s devil.when wikipedia came out, objected didn’t like illusion single truth many things, one official point view. point, criticizing wikipedia doesn’t make sense anymore. they’re killed google google regurgitates wikipedia articles without wikipedia getting benefits.scientists verge bringing back woolly mammoths.if someone wants revive woolly mammoth, feeling is, i’m cultural critic. i’m trying deal basic issues survive. far details people into, hell, want fornicate sex robot top resurrected woolly mammoth, feel like business.you microsoft zune.well, look house. would know?yo-yo overrated.yo-yo wonderful, fine, fine cello player. he’s sweetest guy world.you can’t play serpent ophicleide.deny. dare stump me. don’t think come instrument that’s obscure enough can’t go pick play whatever ask to. (laughs.) how’s arrogance?virtual reality started way make better air guitar.no. (laughs.) air guitars data gloves originally, though.the internet passing fad.i’ve actually thought quite lot. that’s profound question. us worked thought, “o.k., forever thing.” it’s turning badly. mean, feel like it’s failure many important levels, it’s conceivable people decide it’s try form digital networking. internet might remembered failed thing. breaks heart even think that, hope isn’t true, i’m beginning wonder.to read maureen dowd’s interview jaron lanier, click here.
dinosaurs might extinct asteroid struck elsewhere dinosaurs reigned supreme 160 million years. dynasty came cataclysmic close 66 million years ago asteroid crashed yucatán peninsula mexico site known chicxulub crater, paving way mammals — eventually humans — inherit earth.but extraterrestrial impact happened nearly anywhere else, like ocean middle continents, scientists say possible dinosaurs could survived annihilation. 13 percent earth’s surface harbored ingredients necessary turn cosmic collision specific mass extinction event, according study published thursday journal scientific reports.“i think dinosaurs could still alive today,” asteroid landed elsewhere, kunio kaiho, paleontologist tohoku university japan lead author study, said email.other researchers questioned findings.when asteroid, diameter half length manhattan, struck coast mexico, found rich source sulfur hydrocarbons, organic deposits like fossil fuels, according researchers. scorching hot temperatures impact crater would ignited fuel. combustion would spewed soot sulfur stratosphere sufficient quantities blot sun change climate, setting motion collapse entire ecosystems extinction three-quarters species earth.the chicxulub impact spewed extraordinary amount black carbon, soot, rocks, researchers said. turn launched nearly 60 hoover dams worth soot upper atmosphere, cooling earth’s surface much 18 degrees fahrenheit, said.not every place planet amount fossil fuel reserves sulfur trapped beneath surface. locations less hydrocarbons would jetted less soot sky upon impact created smaller cooling effect around globe. dr. kaiho set determine mass extinction hot spots mesozoic real estate market.he created map world looked like 66 million years ago used present day measurements sedimentary rocks organic compounds estimate global distribution hydrocarbons time.dr. kaiho’s co-author naga oshima, senior researcher meteorological research institute japan, created model simulated asteroid impacts ejected varying amounts trapped soot rock. areas highest amounts hydrocarbons released enough soot stratosphere cool climate catastrophic levels.eighty-seven percent earth’s surface, places like present day india, china, amazon africa, would high enough concentrations hydrocarbons seal dinosaurs’ fate. asteroid hit marine coastal areas thriving algae, would included present day siberia, middle east eastern coast north america, bang would devastating dinosaurs life earth chicxulub impact.scientists involved paper criticized underlying research.“the idea location, location, location important impact, think absolutely correct,” said sean p.s. gulick, marine geophysicist university texas austin. questioned authors’ assumptions soot came affected climate.scientists agree planet blanketed soot impact, argue got there. dr. gulick said asteroid impact likely hurled fiery debris sky, rained ignited firestorms around world within hours crash. wildfires, contends, burning fossil fuels impact site, released immense amounts soot stratosphere.dr. gulick said previous work drilling chicxulub crater also showed small amounts hydrocarbons present time impact.natalia artemieva, senior scientist planetary science institute tucson, added soot played smaller role driving global cooling materials following asteroid’s impact.dr. kaiho responded criticism saying previous soot analysis indicated burned higher temperature seen soot forest fires likely came source, said rocks chicxulub asteroid impact site.
nasa’s rocket deep space may ready 2020 nasa’s new heavy-lift rocket get ground december 2019 earliest, maiden flight could easily slip middle 2020, space agency announced wednesday.the rocket known space launch system would succeed saturn 5 took astronauts moon four decades ago. nasa says plans use vehicle take astronauts moon — one goals trump administration — someday mars.earlier year, nasa acknowledged would able make previously announced launch date november 2018 first flight, carry astronauts.the completed review indicates launch date june 2020, nasa said might possible move launch date six months.“this earlier launch date reasonable challenges teams stay focused tasks without creating undue pressure,” william h. gerstenmaier, nasa’s associate administrator human exploration operations, said hearing house space subcommittee thursday. “furthermore, nasa taking additional steps reduce schedule risks known unknown issues protect earliest possible launch date.”at request trump administration, nasa examined possibility putting astronauts aboard rocket’s first flight. would pushed back launch date added much $900 million program’s price tag. nasa administration decided stick original plan.a crewless flight also allows thorough testing, closer edge capabilities orion capsule, separate spacecraft carried rocket astronauts eventually seated.mr. gerstenmaier told congress additional delay first flight adds less 15 percent cost rocket slightly ground systems.the delays caused part technological hiccups well factors nasa’s control, like tornado striking michoud assembly facility louisiana, parts rocket built, february.he said nasa still track first flight astronauts 2023. rocket could also used early 2020s propel robotic probe jupiter study europa, moon vast ocean icy crust thought one promising places solar system look life.mr. gerstenmaier said agency would soon provide framework nasa’s plans beyond 2023.a report week nasa’s inspector general highlighted problems program still faces including tight budget reserves.nasa also remains without permanent leader since charles f. bolden jr. stepped administrator president trump’s inauguration day. 293 days passed since longest nasa without permanent administrator.on wednesday, nomination jim bridenstine, oklahoma congressman, next administrator narrowly approval key senate panel, 14 republicans commerce, science transportation committee voting favor 13 democrats opposed. bill nelson, democratic senator florida, said mr. bridenstine lacked experience needed running large agency like nasa. also criticized mr. bridenstine past statements questioning climate change. full senate still needs vote nomination.some outside space experts suggested nasa abandon space launch system turn alternatives developed commercial companies like spacex blue origin would cheaper. spacex aiming first launch falcon heavy rocket within next months, rocket powerful space launch system also years behind schedule.mr. bridenstine advocate commercial space companies also supports space launch system orion.at thursday’s hearing, lamar smith, texas republican chairs house committee science, space technology, expressed frustration continuing delays cost overruns. “the setbacks s.l.s. orion face, support builds options,” said.mr. smith, however, among deciding future nasa. announced last week would retire term ends january 2019.
lab chimps moving sanctuaries — slowly blue ridge, ga. — 16-hour ride louisiana, bo looked window, took scenery, dozed relaxed.he traveling five male chimps new iberia research center lafayette, la., members colony nearly 200 animals kept biomedical research.during ride, chimps hooted, restless unsettled. bo. “he’s best,” said driver truck.the animals arrived project chimps, sanctuary southern end blue ridge mountains 100 miles north atlanta, 6:30 a.m. one day last spring. sanctuary staff began open truck move chimps’ cages inside facility, occupants hooted screamed, anxious uncertain going on.the first cage opened sort antechamber, chimp named jason first explore new home, rushing seemed like nervous energy small door large habitat.called villa, enclosed space built like extremely large metal cage, 1,500 square feet two stories high metal platforms different levels.jabari, second arrival, slowly joined jason explore new enclosure, kept distance other. lance third line, hesitant leave small antechamber. staff waited half-hour build nerve.then, hoping encourage lance, decided let bo, group’s dominant chimp.bo knuckle-walked, casually confidently — knuckle-swaggered, might say — large enclosure. lance followed immediately. group hugs began.eddie stirlene, last two chimps, came entrance hugs. group’s relief happiness infectious humans smiled. chimps lip-smacked held one another’s genitals.“that’s normal reassuring behavior,” jen feuerstein, top administrator sanctuary, told me.bo house, well.it probably stay way long run: era biomedical research chimpanzees united states effectively over. given nearly 100-year history experimenting chimps, changes seemed come fairly quickly began.in 2011, director national institutes health, francis collins, declared n.i.h. would fund new biomedical research using chimps, described “our closest relatives animal kingdom” deserving “special consideration respect.”his comments stunning obvious. jane goodall, famed primatologist, others already shown world richness chimp intelligence social life; molecular biology revealed humans chimps share 98 percent dna. biomedical scientific establishment long emphasized importance animal research.dr. collins’s decision reflected widespread ethical concerns among scientists treatment social, intelligent animals. practical level, care chimps costly, aren’t always good model study human diseases. they’re also magnet public concern.by 2015, n.i.h. gone several stages decision-making concluded would retire chimps owned, retaining none potential emergency use — case human epidemic, instance. agency owns 220 chimps outside sanctuaries supports another 80, also retired.that year fish wildlife service classified chimpanzees endangered, removing longstanding exemption captive chimps allowed biomedical experiments. decision made research illegal without permit requiring experiments benefit chimpanzees. privately funded medical research privately owned chimps also effectively banned.currently, 547 chimps still held research institutions, according chimpcare, site tracks chimps united states. owned supported n.i.h., owned research institutes like new iberia, part university louisiana lafayette.all government chimps headed chimp haven, sanctuary keithville, la., full social life room roam outdoors.some critics say process unnecessarily slow, chimp n.i.h. say transfers moving quickly now. sanctuary accepted 14 chimps past two months expecting end year.chimp haven, staff 50, 200 chimps 30-year history, lot experience caring retired chimps. kept mixed groups various sizes social interactions monitored.to prevent breeding new chimps would spend lives captivity, chimp gives males vasectomies.but “vasectomies fail,” said raven jackson-jewett, attending veterinarian sanctuary. “conan one taught us that.”conan procedure somehow fathered three youngsters anyway, including tracy, 10 favorite visitors. dr. jackson-jewett said conan, chimp learned chimp vasectomies fail often humans.the staff changed technique, re-vasectomized 75 chimps new method, hasn’t pregnancy since.the sanctuary also learned care frail chimps. many animals labs infected h.i.v. hepatitis vaccine experiments, diabetes (not related experiments).they often old: arrive near 50 years age, lifespan chimps captivity runs 50 60 years. occasionally chimps deemed old even handle stress sent sanctuary.the sanctuaries hope eventually put business. goes planned, another 50 years so, lab retirees.chimps still zoos and, laws stand, private owners could still breed them. since demand use research zero, unlikely happen large scale.most privately owned laboratory chimpanzees also headed retirement centers. new iberia shipped 22 animals project chimps, bo cohort live, still nearly 200.the project chimps facility, formerly housed gorillas, still renovated chimps. get play eight acres walled-in open space, trees, stream open meadow — walls fixed. (unlike gorillas, chimps agile climbers.)those left new iberia aren’t isolated. live groups large, dome-shaped outdoor cages. domes bit less 1,000 square feet floor space.although chimps research housed smaller cages, isolation experiments, practices changed; labs sanctuaries recognized cruel house chimps alone.the private chimps still research institutions include 46 owned yerkes national primate research center emory university atlanta, one georgia state university. yerkes looking retirement facilities chimps sent seven chattanooga zoo.yerkes also sent eight chimpanzees unaccredited zoo england, prompting outcry animal welfare advocates country europe. move prompted lawsuit, fish wildlife service approved even though advocates insisted better options united states.yerkes said english zoo well equipped enlisted comment dr. goodall, said visited facility supported move.the lawsuit first test protections offered chimps endangered species classification. exportation requires permit fish wildlife service, granted action benefits species.the agency accepted yerkes’s argument donation english zoo group never worked chimps fulfilled requirement. decision outraged many primatologists chimp advocates, end courts allowed move.within animal welfare community, elation government decisions years ago now, inevitably, replaced recognition difficult logistics, need continued fund-raising occasional roadblocks.“patience huge lesson me,” laura bonar, chief program policy officer animal protection new mexico, said interview. ms. bonar one activists worked bring decisions end experimentation.patience useful even case chimps like bo, already transferred sanctuaries. soon, perhaps end year, bo chimps sanctuary expected step outside steel bars first time lives.they well. janie gibbons, one staff members takes care chimps, said bo continues lead example — recently group encountered something never seen before.the first time given tomatoes, flummoxed. “bo brave tries things first,” said ms. gibbons. “he took one meticulously ate peel first, fruit.”satisfied tomatoes safe, others followed. rush: jabari threw first tomato wall, even though chimps gathered around bo peered closely could ate alien fruit.now chimps eat tomatoes apples. that’s future may hold chimps: open space tomatoes.but it’s going take while.
circadian clock nose people tell you, “wake smell roses,” might giving bad advice. sense smell may fluctuate sensitivity course 24 hours, tune circadian clocks, nose best able job hours go sleep, according study published last month.the work, reported journal chemical senses, part larger push explore whether adolescents’ senses taste smell influence obesity. rachel herz, sensory researcher brown university, colleagues designed study see might times day sense smell powerful — perhaps making food smell particularly inviting.for experiment, 37 adolescents ranging age 12 15 came lab long sleepover party. nine days, followed strict schedule allow researchers focus circadian clock, helps control wake sleep, also influences processes body, including metabolism.while research needed test whether results fully apply adults, dr. herz says grow up, makeup smell receptors inside nose doesn’t seem change, although evidence body clock may.the team kept track teenagers circadian cycle measuring saliva’s levels melatonin, hormone rises falls regularly course day. every hours, children took scent test, sniffing different concentrations chemical smells like roses. researchers recorded lowest concentration could detect time point.when results tallied up, researchers saw range responses. “nobody nose,” dr. herz said. adolescents mild changes sensitivity, sensitivity altered dramatically others.averaged together, however, results showed overall circadian clock affect smell, times children’s noses sensitive tended correspond evening, average peak 9 p.m.“the results make sense — circadian clock affects virtually every organ system body,” writes dr. leslie vosshall, researcher rockefeller university studies smell involved study, email.smell lowest ebb, intriguingly, 2 a.m. 10 a.m.it already known asleep, strong smell won’t disturb us way loud noise bright light will. perhaps biological machinery behind smell shuts night, least people. dr. herz speculates stronger olfactory abilities dusk fell might helped ancestors survive.“it really underscores importance auditory fire alarms,” said.still, experiment designed test effect circadian clock, factor involved smell sensitivity. researchers already found another big player long someone awake variety smells exposed to. it’s likely role determining when, real life outside lab, sense smell works best.
good dog hunts bad ants tobias labrador retriever one job: sniffing invasive argentine ants wherever hide. he’s really good it, help, fragile island ecosystem may spared repeat inundation pests.santa cruz island 25 miles coast southern california, part channel islands national park. island’s rich, rugged environment — includes 1,000 kinds plants animals, including bald eagle island fox — threatened argentine ants, one world’s successful wily invasive species.the ants one long line threats nature conservancy worked overcome since bought island 1978. one section, ants chased away flower-pollinating bees, native ants, spiders insects crucial local ecology.they nearly impossible get rid of; never done infestation large santa cruz’s. christina boser, ecologist leads conservancy’s ant eradication project, devised aerial assault, dropping tiny sugar water beads spiked diluted poison helicopters.the campaign, largely 2015 2016, appears killed ants. still, even one colony survived, elaborate effort might wasted.that’s tobias comes in. pinpoints faint pheromone scent left particular species ant — — sit look handler excited expectation child christmas morning. tobias’s reward “wubba,” soft blue ball.“we developed really special bond,” said kyren zimmerman, handler nonprofit working dogs conservation, headquartered bozeman, mont.dogs renowned scenting skills, whether they’re detecting narcotics, bedbugs, bombs tumors. increasingly, since 1990s, scientists trained aid conservation.it rare package traits suit dogs kind work, important fanatical toy obsession high energy. personality difficult pet owners, may tobias others working dogs conservation “pack” found shelters.“they love do. needed purpose direction,” said group’s co-founder, deborah woollett.in march, tobias mr. zimmerman underwent weeks basic argentine ant training. took choppy ferry ride island got work.by summer’s end, pair hadn’t found new ant colonies hiking bushwhacking — great sign eradication really worked.ms. boser believes there’s dog world trained like tobias detect argentine ants wild landscape. importantly, cheaper effective search methods.ms. boser dr. woollett working publish training methodology. argentine ants major pest six continents, believe dogs tobias’s skills could demand.“it’s emerging science, it’s actually needed science,” ms. boser said.monitoring continue, ants seemingly gone, area’s ecology already improved.“being able put towel beach watch sunset nice,” ms. boser said. “you without ants crawl you.”tobias, however, happier since leaving september. he’s moved nearby san clemente island, he’s helping scientists find argentine ants areas still infested.it’s little closer ant-sniffing dog’s vision heaven. “he’s getting lot favorite wubba time now,” mr. zimmerman said.
grecian artifact evokes tales ‘iliad’ ‘odyssey’ two years ago, archaeologists excavating ancient grave pylos southwestern greece pulled grime-encrusted object, less inch half long, looked like kind large bead. put aside focus prominent items, like gold rings, also packed rich grave.but later, conservator removed lime accretions bead’s face, turned something quite different: seal stone, gemstone engraved design stamped clay wax.the seal stone’s image, striking depiction one warrior battle two others, carved remarkably fine detail, features barely visible naked eye. image easier appreciate large-scale drawing original.“the detail astonishing, especially given size. aesthetically, it’s masterpiece miniature art,” said john bennet, director british school athens, archaeological institute.“the stunning combat scene seal stone, one greatest masterpieces aegean art, bears comparison drawings michelangelo show metropolitan museum art,” said malcolm h. wiener, expert aegean prehistory trustee emeritus met.the seal stone comes untouched shaft grave near ancient palace pylos. grave discovered may 2015 jack l. davis sharon r. stocker, archaeologists university cincinnati digging pylos 25 years.“it cleaning, process drawing photography, excitement slowly rose gradually came realize unearthed masterpiece,” wrote journal hesperia.the seal stone presents two mysteries. one engraved detail. whether battle scene, strongly evocative homer’s “iliad” “odyssey,” depicts event contributed oral tradition behind works homer.the seal stone’s owner, known griffin warrior mythical animal depicted grave, buried around 1450 b.c. lived critical period minoan civilization crete transferred cities greek mainland.local chieftains, griffin warrior may been, used precious items crete advertise membership greek-speaking elite incipient mycenaean civilization, first mainland europe. descendants, century later, built great palaces pylos, mycenae tiryns, places mentioned homer.dr. davis dr. stocker believe seal stone, like objects griffin warrior’s grave, made crete. work quality produced anywhere greek mainland time. detail fine seems engraver would needed magnifying glass, would admirers work.yet magnifying implements found crete era. perhaps engraver nearsighted, two archaeologists suggest.fritz blakolmer, expert aegean art university vienna, argues seal stone miniature copy much larger original, probably stucco-embellished wall painting like found palace knossos crete. said seal must engraved someone magnifying glass, even though none found, dismissed possibility people era sharper eyesight today.the seal, carved hard stone known agate, shows victorious hero slaying adversary third warrior lies dead foreground. seal stone mounted worn wrist, indeed hero wearing item, wristwatch.the two defeated warriors seem belong group, wearing patterned kilts whereas hero sports codpiece. scene evidently represents event would familiar minoans made seal stone griffin warrior’s community.the seal stone’s possible relevance homeric epics intriguing elusive. early archaeologists, heinrich schliemann, first excavated troy mycenae, believed “iliad” recounted historical events quick see proof artifacts found.later archaeologists doubtful, allowed destruction troy 1200 b.c. could remembered oral poetry 500 years homeric poems first written down, around 700 b.c.the griffin warrior buried around 1450 b.c., distancing even first written version homer. still, evidence oral tradition behind homeric epics traces far back linear b, first greek writing system.linear b adapted mycenaean greeks linear a, used minoans. oldest known linear b inscriptions date 1450 b.c., script disappeared collapse mycenaean civilization around 1200 b.c.some scansion problems homeric poems “can resolved restore older forms greek consistent dialect recorded linear b documents,” said dr. bennet british school athens.so oral tradition led homeric epics perhaps stretched seven centuries.“we’re saying representation homer,” dr. stocker said tableau seal stone, admitting would “fun believe” hero achilles. rather, image “is part cycle stories familiar mycenaeans minoans.”dr. blakolmer, too, finds tempting see figures seal homeric heroes, like hector nestor, view temptation must resisted.“fifty years ago, would find nice attributions homeric heroes, today’s academics careful homeric attributions,” said. “we make mistakes, theirs.”
cool beginnings volcano’s supereruption supervolcano’s underground ocean magma isn’t seething, red-hot molten lava might imagine. instead, it’s likely low enough temperature solid.that’s according new analysis volcanic leftovers ancient california supereruption, shows magma melted shortly volcano erupted. findings, published monday proceedings national academy sciences, might help scientists forecast volcanoes pose threat.the supereruption question occurred 765,000 years ago, carving vast volcanic depression that’s 20 miles long 10 miles wide, known long valley caldera near california’s mammoth mountain. process, ejected giant quantity ash hot gas one nightmarish week, enough leave layer debris spread pacific ocean nebraska.“it would completely wiped everything within 50 kilometers caldera,” said brad singer, geologist university wisconsin madison study’s co-author. “all vegetation biota area would extinguished.”scientists don’t expect long valley erupt again, given enough time another supervolcano likely scar planet. so, nathan andersen, geologist georgia institute technology, analyzed 49 crystals bishop tuff — fossilized ash deposit long valley’s supereruption.these crystals — elements locked within — contain clues supervolcano erupted. take element argon example. hot crystals can’t retain argon, team didn’t expect see eruption. instead, found roughly half crystals contained argon much 16,000 years older eruption.the data — tiffany rivera, geologist westminster college utah involved study, calls “exquisite” — surprising implications.they suggest crystals older argon stored hot magma long eruption. fact, argon retained crystals surrounded magma that’s less 500 degrees celsius. magma, that’s quite chilly — chilly fact, would solid.and yet, scientists estimate supereruption occurred, magma 785 degrees celsius. explain discrepancy, team suspects heat infiltrated system quickly argon didn’t time escape. heat likely awoke cool supervolcano, pushing toward eruption less hundred years — perhaps within decades.that’s far cry lethargic time scales often define field geology. yet, recent research yellowstone supervolcano wyoming taupo supervolcano new zealand also suggested events leading supereruptions occur human time scales.the findings suggest supervolcano wake extremely cold state, raising questions solid ocean magma could melt mobilize rapidly.“the physics works still worked debated,” dr. andersen says. many think injection fresh magma volcano likely trick.and given long valley’s magma sits mere five kilometers surface, event wouldn’t gone unnoticed, dr. gualda says. waters circulating crust would started heat up, generating new hydrothermal features like geysers, hot springs mud pots landscape started boil over. ground, too, would swelled upward supervolcano’s magma reservoir grew.should supervolcanoes play rules long valley, results could help scientists read signals unrest preceding future supereruptions even smaller eruptions.
dinosaurs’ demise, many mammals seized day dinosaurs away, mammals play.that’s basic idea behind “nocturnal bottleneck” hypothesis, concept proposed 1942 suggested mammals could survived dinosaur-dominated world avoiding sharp-toothed beasts day coming night.mammalogists long thought earliest shared ancestor mammals nocturnal, study published monday provides potential date furry creatures stopped cowering shadows started venturing daylight.the researchers found first mammals active day night appeared around 65.8 million years ago, 200,000 years extinction event led demise dinosaurs. likely ancestors even-toed ungulates, like today’s cattle, llamas hippopotamuses, well cetaceans like whales dolphins.“in evolutionary time 200,000 years hardly anything. it’s almost immediately,” said roi maor, doctoral student tel aviv university israel university college london, lead author paper appeared nature ecology & evolution.they also found first mammals clearly diurnal, active daytime, appeared 52.4 million years ago, 13 million years dinosaurs died out. among mammals early monkeys apes, ancestors today’s gorillas, gibbons humans.mr. maor cautioned study showed correlation, causation, nonavian dinosaurs went extinct mammals became daytime creatures. finding adds support 75-year-old hypothesis describing ancestors inherited day dinosaurs disappeared.using computer program, mr. maor colleagues plugged behavioral data 2,415 mammal species noted whether species nocturnal, diurnal, cathemeral (irregularly active day night). analysis also evaluated ancestry information showed closely related species one another.“think atlas. show species alive today one ancestors mapped onto road map,” said. “our algorithm told us whether ancestors diurnal nocturnal.”it showed expected behavioral patterns ancestors going back least 166 million years ago mesozoic, highlighted shift nocturnal daylight activity among mammalian ancestors 66 million years ago, calamity struck planet.their data set represented 91 percent mammal families. 60 percent nocturnal, like vampire bat, fennec fox four-toed hedgehog, 26 percent diurnal like eastern gray squirrel, giraffes humans. rest characterized cathemeral like star-nosed mole, european rabbit muskrat.lars schmitz, evolutionary biologist claremont colleges, california involved study, said excited see large comparative study, study’s finding mammals emerged daylight supports nocturnal bottleneck hypothesis.“this seems support people saying, mammals predominantly nocturnal niche could expand daytime dinosaurs gone,” said.but noted limitation work includes living species extinct ones. without knowing behavior, researchers may missing important clues mammals first carpe diem-ed.
humongous fungus genes made way thousands years ago, two microscopic spores spawned created monster. grew — three feet year — sending dark, gnarly, threadlike organs called rhizomorphs explored subterranean darkness, foraging food. it’s nebulous body, tangled mat beneath oregon soil occupies area size three central parks may weigh much 5,000 african elephants.its scientific name armillaria ostoyae, call humongous fungus. it’s largest known terrestrial organism planet, according united states forest service. it’s also deadly forest pathogen.although none (that know of) big, many others armillaria genus. fungi cause root rot disease plants forests, parks, orchards vineyards across north america, europe asia. sets apart fungi stringy rhizomorphs find weak trees, colonize roots, kill eat them.an international group scientists led hungarian researchers completed first step defeating fungal demogorgons. genetic analysis published monday journal nature ecology evolution, uncovered tactics help armillaria develop unusual rhizomorphs, grow big get good killing host plants.the biologists compared genomes four armillaria species 22 related fungi looked unique special proteins gene families. also compared rhizomorphs fruiting bodies, called honey mushrooms, different stages development.they found armillaria fungi expanded genomes copying certain chunks it, meant additional capacity making new rules behavior. way, fungus genes involved making really good bad. example, team found extra proteins killing cells gobbling glue holds plant cell walls together.they also found special tactics hiding: armillaria reabsorb substances lost soil alert trees presence avoid tree’s full defenses. lets kill trees undetected start leeching nutrients dead stuff competing bacteria fungi arrived. competitors show up, armillaria create chemical environment intolerable them.they also found rhizomorphs fruiting bodies shared genes, suggesting researchers point organs hijacked ancient tool kit making cartoonish fruiting bodies generally call mushrooms. specific genetic traits rhizomorphs — red-sensing photoreceptor pheromones related mating — may help seek victims, researchers speculated.however find hosts, pathogenic armillaria ancient. arrived estimated 21 million years ago stuck around reason.in healthy, natural, diverse forests, fungi absorb carbon kill weakest trees, like gangly, underground forest rangers. monocultures made genetically identical trees, stresses like drought cause trees fall weak simultaneously.“this armillaria wipe entire forests,” said györgy sipos, biologist university sopron hungary led study lászló nagy, hungarian academy sciences.while you’re unlikely spot fungal monster like humongous fungus lurking beneath soil, honey mushrooms sometimes appear surface clumped together around tree trunks. beneath bark, may find indicators infection look like dark shoe strings white paint. try remove stump, there’s much rhizomorphs go deep live long.on brighter side, may get witness foxfire, glow rotting wood results infections.
male mammoths died ‘silly ways’ often females, study finds swallowed sinkhole. washed away mudflow. drowned falling thin ice.these fates many unlucky mammoths suffered siberia thousands years ago. well-preserved fossils provided paleobiologists insight prehistoric lives. now, performing genetic analysis remains furry victims natural traps, team scientists made striking discovery: male.“in many species, males tend somewhat stupid things end getting killed silly ways, appears may true mammoths also,” said love dalén, evolutionary biologist swedish museum natural history.in study published thursday journal current biology, colleagues analyzed dna nearly 100 mammoth bones, teeth tusks, found two-thirds came males. speculate reason skewed sex-ratio may risky behavior young males take leaving protection mothers live own.“old females knowledgeable, know best,” said.the finding accident, according patrícia pečnerová, doctoral student stockholm university lead author study. came entering data different project mammoth genetics.“while filling spreadsheet saw many males, be,” said. “we really surprised see twice many males females previous research indication case.”a previous study mammoth remains, hot springs, s.d., found among 14 dead specimens, 13 young adult males one female. ms. pečnerová’s study investigated sex ratios using genetics.the 98 specimens team analyzed came across northern part siberia collected course four decades. oldest 60,000 years old, youngest, specimen known “lonely boy,” 4,000 years old. genetic data provide insight old mammoths died, sex.to obtain dna, team first limit contamination. that, worked clean laboratory wore lab suits similar ebola doctors wear. shaved millimeters surface samples drilled extract genetic data. found 66 males 29 females.the biggest limitation study explanation skew speculative based mostly behavior present-day elephants. thought mammoths, like today’s elephants, lived matriarchal societies adult females protected young. around ages 14 15 puberty set in, males left herd either became loners joined bachelor groups, often led inexperienced males. likely something risky, find stuck frozen muck.the natural traps buried bodies quickly, protecting scavengers. researchers said findings say nothing sex ratio mammoths alive, think may 50-50, males likely die ways kept remains preserved thousands years.beth shapiro, evolutionary molecular biologist university california, santa cruz, involved study, said surprised results team’s hypothesis sensible given know elephant behavior. added would interesting see sex ratio difference prehistoric mammals preserved permafrost, like bison horses.daniel fisher, paleontologist university michigan, said hypothesis well-founded, tusks used study males often broke tusks fighting other, mean died.the authors said even discounting tusk fragments using teeth, bone hair samples, still dead males.
ancient fossil offers new european ancestor giraffes near-perfect fossil unearthed close madrid appears ancient european ancestor giraffes, representing new species family one two sets bony bumps head rather single set modern giraffes.older fossils family known giraffids found before, none pristine condition, said ari grossman, associate professor anatomy midwestern university glendale, ariz., involved finding said whole field would benefit it.“it’s something paleontologists dream rarely find,” dr. grossman said. “the discovery breathtaking.”fossils three animals species named decennatherium rex researchers also found, according new study journal plos one. complete, nine million years old provide evidence ancestors giraffe family lived deep inside europe much earlier suspected. fossils also suggest physical differences males females.“it fills lot gaps knew giraffes,” said dr. maría ríos, study’s lead author researcher museo nacional de ciencias naturales-csic madrid.everyone thinks giraffe’s long neck distinguishing feature. biological family members defined two characteristics unrelated necks: double-lobed canine teeth, ossicones, bony outcroppings top heads. modern giraffes two small medium ossicones. new species double set, back pair larger front.decennatherium rex looked like giant moose either living family members, said nikos solounias, giraffe evolution expert professor anatomy new york institute technology, college osteopathic medicine.the male animal stood nine feet tall top head, 6.5 feet across weighed two tonnes – smaller modern giraffe, much larger okapi, said dr. ríos, received ph.d. based work fossils. female decennatherium rex fossils, ossicones measure two inches, male large set extends full 16 inches. “the specimen found like giant bulky okapi huge posterior horns,” said.because male female decennatherium rex ossicones, dr. grossman said may push scientists reconsider assumption ossicones evolved help males compete one female attention.today, two living members giraffid family: modern giraffe, familiar zoos african safaris, okapi, zebra-striped back legs lives rain forests central africa. scientists recently argued modern giraffes fact four distinct species. 30 giraffid species time, ranging indian subcontinent china mediterranean coast, said dr. solounias, also research associate american museum natural history new york.giraffids began appearing around beginning miocene, 23 million years ago, said, probably pakistan india.the greatest diversity found greek island samos, near turkey, said, probably eight nine different species time decennatherium rex roaming spain alongside one two related species.the site fossil found, cerro de los batallones (batallones butte), hour south madrid’s city center, first discovered 1991, dr. ríos said. finds clay-like soil included rich collection carnivores, including big cats bears, well giant tortoises, rhinoceroses giant elephant-like creature, said. “it’s really cool.” giraffe fossils found area site digging since 2007.dr. ríos colleagues used information new fossil find redraw giraffid family tree. new tree puts giraffes okapis relatively far away evolutionarily, dr. grossman said, adding understanding animals relationship. “we’re preserving relics two distinct groups giraffes morphologically different,” said.the new family tree, dr. ríos said, “is first step unravel really come from.”the quality fossils others site suggest many research findings there, said dr. ríos, adding past summer team found complete fossilized rhinoceros.
sea slug eats, prefers turducken sea you’re camping woods, tuck salmon you’ve caught bear appears. it’s waiting eat fish, swoop eat you.this steal bear. price human, it’s bagged human-salmon combo meal.this scenario hypothetical, feeding strategy illustrates not, according study published wednesday biology letters. report, team scientists britain italy termed tactic “kleptopredation” described bears, brilliantly colored sea slug, cratena peregrina, that’s length soda tab commonly found mediterranean.these psychedelic slugs, also called nudibranchs, known feed tentacled marine organisms known hydroids, related corals sea anemones. pop polyps hydroids one might pick flower stalk. based lab experiments, authors new paper suggest slugs prefer eat hydroids ensnared plankton, food item nudibranchs aren’t capable capturing themselves.think like wielding living fishing rod. eating turducken. whichever preferred analogy, kleptopredation — using one prey item obtain another prey item — falls outside ecologists’ traditional classifications feeding behavior. there’s predation, there’s so-called kleptoparasitism (when one animal takes food another animal, like pack hyenas stealing fresh kill lion). kleptopredation something new.patrick krug, nudibranch expert california state university, los angeles involved study, said “steal meal, eat you, too” strategy potentially rewrites ecologists understand food chains. “you usually think predator eating prey item, eating prey item eating,” said.to test whether cratena nudibranchs penchant hydroids freshly eaten, authors lab experiments 25 slugs, presenting four mesh bags. bags held nothing, empty hydroids, hydroids fed brine shrimp brine shrimp only.in 14 25 cases, nudibranchs “went straight bags contained fed hydroids,” said trevor willis, marine ecologist university portsmouth britain lead author study. slugs also ate double number fed polyps compared unfed ones.next, researchers analyzed diet wild nudibranchs measuring isotope called nitrogen-15. animal eats another organism, heavier form nitrogen becomes concentrated tissues prey’s tissues, higher food chain go, nitrogen-15 find.dr. willis colleagues found nitrogen-15 levels nudibranchs lower would expect animals eating hydroids only. suggests slugs might getting significant amount nutrition directly small plankton, contain lower quantities nitrogen-15 hydroids. using statistical models, researchers estimated plankton possibly contribute much, more, slugs’ diets hydroids themselves.as sea slugs prefer hydroids who’ve fill, dr. willis speculates it’s way animals get calories plankton also overeating hydroids, depend shelter addition nourishment. “it seems counterintuitive animal would destroy habitat,” said.but purely conjecture now, dr. willis said, adding research “first step” raises questions answers. one whether animals, like nudibranchs eat coral, perform kleptopredation. added unraveling detailed feeding interactions help scientists understand energy flows ecosystems, dynamics might shift climate change.“once idea what’s going species level, put little stories together look whole communities,” said.
africa, rural clinics entice pregnant women ‘baby pictures’ getting women medical care months pregnant top priority public health officials, simple interventions often save lives mother child.early treatment h.i.v., syphilis high blood pressure, well vaccines like tetanus vitamins like folic acid, make enormous differences whether mother baby survive birth.but poorly educated women often think worth trouble visit clinic labor. many believe consulting traditional healers worthwhile.now group canadian doctors pioneering appears effective way entice rural african mothers visit clinics long due dates. offered ultrasounds advertised local radio words: “you able see baby.”the medical charity bridge health medical dental tested concept highlands southwest uganda 2014. study, published plos one year, found doctors set temporary clinics rural villages, six times many pregnant women visited free ultrasounds advertised, compared turnout villages ultrasounds offered advertised word mouth.women previously seen traditional healers nine times likely show ultrasounds advertised.“it’s magic able see unborn baby,” said dr. michael s. silverman, infectious disease specialist western university london, canada, study co-author.the ultrasound scanners study cost $10,000 new $2,500 refurbished, said dr. william cherniak, executive director bridge health another co-author. battery-powered, 40 scans per charge, survive bouncing along rutted dirt roads.the group hopes test inexpensive new scanners plug directly smartphones; technician view fetus phone transmit image radiologist anywhere world, dr. cherniak said.the women study could see fetuses monitors, bridge health since added printer women take home pictures.“we even diagnosed acute appendicitis older woman came even though wasn’t pregnant,” dr. cherniak said. “these machines lots uses.”
way wind blows q. wind turbines generate electricity seem three blades, sometimes two. few?a. many 90 percent turbines use three blades. experiments still underway determine number blades works best terms efficiency, durability economy.when wind shifts, three-blade design minimizes vibration “chatter.” two-blade system subject considerable chatter blades horizontal position, associated wear tear turbine. chatter sometimes audible.a design one blade would actually aerodynamically efficient, single blade would move fast, producing objectionable noise, wears assembly quickly.adding fourth blade increases energy production small percentage, added expense comparatively large.finally, many people consider three-blade turbine aesthetically pleasing design.
$300 billion war beneath street: fighting replace america’s water pipes bursting pipes. leaks. public health scares.america facing crisis crumbling water infrastructure, fixing monumental expensive task.two powerful industries, plastic iron, locked lobbying war estimated $300 billion local governments spend water sewer pipes next decade.it battle titans, raging inches beneath feet.“things moving fast,” said reese tisdale, president water advisory firm bluefield research. it’s good thing, says: “there pipes ground 150 years old.”how pipe wars play — city town councils, state capitals, washington — determine drinking water delivered homes across america generations come.traditional materials like iron steel currently make almost two-thirds existing municipal water pipe infrastructure. next decade, much 80 percent new municipal investment water pipes could spent plastic pipes, bluefield predicts.the outcome rivalry also determine country’s response infrastructure challenge epic proportions.by 2020, average age 1.6 million miles water sewer pipes united states hit 45 years. cast iron pipes least 600 towns counties century old, according industry estimates. though congress banned lead water pipes three decades ago, 10 million older ones remain, ready leach lead contaminants drinking water something simple change water source.as many 8,000 children exposed unsafe levels lead flint, mich., city switched new water supply failed properly treat water chemicals prevent lead pipes disintegrating. corroding iron pipes, meanwhile, linked two outbreaks legionnaires’ disease flint added public health emergency.the plastics industry seized post-flint fears.the american chemistry council, deep-pocketed trade association lobbies plastics industry, backed bills least five states — michigan, ohio, south carolina, indiana arkansas — would require local governments open bids municipal water projects suitable materials, including plastic. council spokesman, scott openshaw, criticized current bidding process many localities “virtual monopolies waste taxpayer money, drive costs ultimately make harder states municipalities complete critical water infrastructure upgrades.”opponents industry-backed bills, including many municipal engineers, say thinly veiled effort plastics industry muscle aside traditional pipe suppliers.“it’s simply catering industry trying use legislation gain market share,” stephen pangori american council engineering companies testified year michigan senate committee.to directly reach towns counties across country, plastics industry also leaning american city county exchange, new group gives corporations extraordinary capacity influence public policy city county levels. group operates auspices american legislative exchange council, wider effort funded petrochemicals billionaires charles g. david h. koch drawn scrutiny helping corporations local politicians write legislation behind closed doors.corporations pay membership fees high $25,000 gain access 1,500 mayors local council members signed initiative. july convention denver brought together three dozen local legislators, bruce hollands, executive director plastic pipe industry group uni-bell pvc pipe association, discussed gone wrong flint, explained needed done open local bidding plastic water pipes. spur local decision-making, a.c.c.e. also adopted model legislation pushing open bidding water pipes.“we’re trying take policies limit size government, keep growing exponentially,” said jon russell, national director a.c.c.e. councilman town culpeper, va.plastics obvious replacement country’s aging pipes. lightweight, easy install, corrosion-free 50 percent cheaper iron, plastic pipes already taken place copper preferred material service lines connect homes municipal mains, well water pipes inside home.still, scientists warn rapid replacement america’s water infrastructure plastic could bring health concerns.scientists starting understand effect plastic quality safety drinking water, including sort chemicals leach water pipes themselves, surrounding groundwater contamination. studies shown toxic pollutants like benzene toluene spills contaminated soil permeate certain types plastic pipes age. 2013 review research leaching plastic pipe identified 150 contaminants migrating plastic pipes drinking water.“plastics installed without real understanding they’re drinking water,” said andrew j. whelton, assistant professor civil engineering purdue university, author 2013 study. “we don’t know chemicals we’re exposed to.”sensing opening, iron pipe industry started public relations push own, voicing concerns plastic, wooing president trump accolades infrastructure drive setting war two industries.“iron durable. it’s proven material,” said patrick hogan, president ductile iron pipe research association, industry’s main lobby group. “iron’s ground 100 years.”plastic groups criticized studies, saying focus older generations plastic piping conflate different types plastics. also stress pipes independently tested third-party organization.“it’s new material. it’s safe material. it’s independently tested,” said mr. hollands, executive director uni-bell plastic pipes group.the industry outreach, times, overt.at height flint’s water crisis, chief executive one nation’s largest manufacturers plastic pipes, jm eagle, traveled beleaguered city offered replace city’s lead pipes cost.pipes jm eagle would last 100 years long-lasting safe solution, company’s chief executive, walter wang, told city council last february. “this water crisis, contamination issue,” said, “it’s hurting children making sick.”jm eagle, however, faced recent legal problems. 2013, federal jury california found los angeles-based company defrauded states municipalities decade knowingly selling defective water pipes. places, pvc pipes supposed last 50 years exploded first year, causing injuries flooding.jm eagle declined comment previously said litigation based “scurrilous allegations” disgruntled former employee. formosa plastics, taiwanese industrial conglomerate parent company time, agreed pay $22.5 million settlement municipalities government agencies california.the uncertainty potable water pipes kinds exacerbated lack regulation safety. federal oversight materials processes used manufacture plastic water pipes; instead, water pipes certified tested organization paid industry.that organization, nsf international, displays picture capitol building regulatory resources web page runs hotline questions regulations product safety. yet never received regulatory authority federal government. disclose test results pipes certifies.nsf international called testing robust. “if product meet requirements standard, pass,” said dave purkiss, organization’s general manager water systems.for now, flint fitting city service lines made another material: copper, expected cost $140 million. officials discussed creating pilot area using plastic replace service lines houses several city blocks, according plastics news, though flint spokeswoman, kristin moore, said plastic pipes currently consideration.“when take inherent issue needed rebuild trust citizens water system, felt copper way go,” michael mcdaniel, retired michigan national guard brigadier general put charge replacing flint’s water pipes, said conference year.in burton, next door flint, budget realities made plastics realistic choice.the small city 29,000 saved $2.2 million using plastic replace 1930s-era water system state regulators alerted city critically needed fixes. municipality struggling dwindling tax base, savings huge.“we needed safe water, needed fast. needed replace system, pvc good choice us,” said burton’s mayor, paula zelenko. “i’ve got get best bang buck, bucks hard come days.”
what’s stake bonn climate talks? paris climate agreement 2015 key moment battle climate change: 195 countries vowed help limit rise global temperatures since industrial revolution “well below” 2 degrees celsius (3.6 degrees fahrenheit).but paris deal start long, arduous process. world’s nations still struggling translate lofty promises meaningful cuts greenhouse gas emissions. explains diplomats meeting yet another round climate talks bonn, germany, began nov. 6 continue friday.much attention talks trump administration, vowed withdraw united states paris deal 2020. response, gaggle world leaders, american governors, major corporations advocacy groups make big show insisting global action climate change still trundling forward, without president trump.yet much crucial work bonn happen behind closed doors diplomats try build initial paris agreement, crafting new rules guidelines that, hope, help turn hazy national promises concrete action. here’s watch for.the overarching task ever: figuring limit severe global warming decades ahead.under paris agreement, country submitted voluntary pledge tackle greenhouse gas emissions agreed meet every five years review collective progress prod one another ratchet efforts.but far, pledges proved inadequate. industrialized countries — europe japan united states — aren’t track meet emissions goals. even were, current pledges put world course heat 3 degrees celsius more, outcome far greater risk destabilizing ice sheets greenland antarctica, drastic sea-level rise destructive heat waves droughts. stay well 2 degrees, countries would need cut back fossil-fuel emissions far rapidly they’ve promised far.in 2018, leaders plan assess efforts date discuss action could help lessen odds drastic global warming — goal crafting newer, stronger national pledges 2020. that, need agree formal ground rules exercise. “rule book” focus bonn.one widely recognized problem current paris pledges they’re fairly vague.china promised emissions would peak around 2030, country’s energy data notoriously murky, it’s hard tell much progress it’s actually making. similarly, european union vowed cut emissions 40 percent 1990 levels 2030, offered specifics achieve goal — making hard gauge whether european policymakers could realistically much more.at bonn, negotiators discussing make pledges rigorous transparent, countries readily held accountable actions. means tackling questions like: what’s best way track nations’ progress, see they’re said would do? way tell country’s pledge could made ambitious? specific policies working well aren’t?because paris pledges largely voluntary — world leaders would never agreed deal otherwise — one force governments take additional action. but, idea goes, pledges policies made transparent, world leaders better able pressure help more.the final draft “rule book” due next year, may actually get finished bonn, negotiators hoping make significant progress long list items talks. always, diplomacy tends proceed fitfully.even though trump administration vowed withdraw paris agreement, united states can’t formally exit climate talks 2020. state department sending small team negotiators discuss details pact.the united states china still preside working group transparency, though remains seen much influence american officials wield.the administration also hold event bonn representatives energy companies promote coal, natural gas nuclear power solutions global warming. countries expected view american push promote fossil fuels wary eye.in meantime, coalition pro-paris governors officials plan attend conference tout efforts states, cities businesses making reduce emissions despite trump administration’s stance — highlighting country’s deep divide climate policy.discussions around “rule book” assessing ratcheting pledges could prove contentious. past, instance, united states insisted developing countries held strict monitoring standards wealthy countries, china india pushed bifurcated system.developing countries also argued need financial aid wealthier nations expand clean energy adapt ravages climate change.the government fiji presiding bonn conference, put spotlight issues like “loss damage” — is, whether wealthy nations compensate island nations poorer countries droughts, storms rising sea levels emissions causing. paris agreement broached issue briefly, industrialized nations resisted calls held legally liable role warming planet.some climate advocates hoping relatively low-key conference makes modest progress issues like transparency climate finance. scenario, american officials would play quietly constructive role helping craft rule book ratcheting pledges. nonstate actors, including cities businesses, would continue press forward efforts tackle climate change outside formal united nations process.conversely, it’s entirely possible trump administration’s rejection paris deal could lead countries disengage global efforts address climate change. talks could get bogged traditional rifts richer poorer nations. that, turn, could stall momentum right next big round climate talks 2018 — countries supposed get details what’s needed step climate policies going forward.
brussels arkansas, tough week monsanto opposition france italy doomed european union vote thursday reauthorize world’s popular weedkiller, glyphosate, decision came hours arkansas regulators moved ban alternative weedkiller much 2018.the decisions double blow agrochemical industry particularly chemicals giant monsanto. appeals committee european officials convene month, though, weigh whether continue allow glyphosate weeks registration expires. chemical main ingredient roundup, one monsanto’s flagships, patent ended made much industry.the effort reauthorize weedkiller failed receive majority even though regulators seeking five-year reauthorization instead typical 15, amid controversy disputes cancer risk made glyphosate’s future europe uncertain. approval region expires mid-december.the vote thursday, weighted based population various european union member states, nearly 37 percent favor renewing chemical little 32 percent against, nearly 31 percent abstaining. france italy opposed renewal; spain favor, along britain, due leave union. germany poland abstained.in arkansas, regulators voted wednesday ban use another major weedkiller, dicamba, six months next year, including summer, amid widespread reports crop damage. dicamba around decades, new versions developed monsanto, basf dupont alternative roundup. regulatory recommendation sent state legislative panel.taken together, decisions reflect increasing political resistance pesticides europe parts united states, well specific shortcomings dicamba, whose tendency drift given pause even trump administration’s environmental protection agency, otherwise largely acceded wishes chemical industry. dicamba damaged 3.6 million acres soybean crops 25 states, roughly 4 percent soybeans planted year united states.in statement, industry trade group known glyphosate task force, includes monsanto syngenta, called european decision “discriminatory unacceptable,” adding “delays nature evident final stages process simply expose acute politicization regulatory procedure.”but nicolas hulot, french environment minister, tweeted vote: “thanks opposition glyphosate reauthorized 10 years, 5 years. effort get pesticides continues!”regarding decision arkansas, scott partridge, vice president global strategy monsanto, said statement wednesday company disappointed state regulators “voted put arkansas farmers disadvantage, we’ll continue follow process help growers greater choice next season.”the european union’s decision followed years haggling delay. policymakers largely brushed aside opinions two bloc’s science agencies, found glyphosate carcinogen.but glyphosate, accounts quarter global market, plunged controversy since international agency research cancer, part world health organization, declared probable carcinogen 2015. finding, disputed number government agencies, made weedkiller magnet controversy.glyphosate also center federal case united states claims causes cancer, california declared carcinogen, following footsteps international cancer agency.use glyphosate soared united states parts world last two decades, monsanto introduced crops genetically engineered resistant chemical. meant key crops like corn, soybeans cotton could sprayed herbicide emerged ground. time, presence glyphosate human urine increased 500 percent, according recent study university california san diego school medicine published journal american medical association.europe, contrast, largely shunned genetically modified crops, glyphosate still continent’s biggest seller. britain germany, used much 40 percent agricultural land, according industry trade group.but political sentiment europe turning monsanto, american company become face agrochemical industry, even though process acquired bayer, german chemicals giant. european parliament voted last month ban glyphosate, step nonbinding. september, parliament made monsanto first company barred lobbying chamber.the science around glyphosate become muddle allegations counterallegations. environmental activists accused national regulators hewing closely monsanto’s wishes, industry exasperated european politicians overruling science agencies. litigation united states muddied waters further, evidence emerging monsanto ghostwrote journalism academic work, eroding trust company long lightning rod.but latest major study, published thursday researchers national institutes health, “observed associations glyphosate use overall cancer risk.”with dicamba, industry received warnings years ago weedkiller prone drifting crops vegetation intended treat. dicamba supposed used soybeans genetically modified resist effects.steve smith, member advisory panel set monsanto, warned far back 2010 “widespread use dicamba incompatible midwestern agriculture,” according congressional testimony gave year. “even best, conscientious farmers cannot control weedkiller end up.”monsanto argued drift occurring dicamba sprayed improperly unapproved versions used. many farmers weed scientists say also turn gas drift certain weather conditions.environmentalists called federal action environmental protection agency dicamba.“it’s long past time agency heed independent science protect farmers prohibiting use hazardous weedkiller,” said bill freese, science policy analyst center food safety.
trump ignores climate change. that’s bad disaster planners. hurricane irma swept florida keys september, brought vivid preview damage climate change could inflict region decades ahead.the storm washed two sections highway connecting keys, leaving residents stranded days. ocean levels rising around low-lying islands, however, interruption could end seeming minor: 2030, almost half county’s roads could affected flooding.“we know water isn’t going away,” said rhonda haag, sustainability director monroe county, preparing elevate vulnerable roadways keys. task costly, $7 million per mile road, county may ultimately require outside help.in washington, federal emergency management agency leading recovery efforts could cost taxpayers $50 billion devastating storms hit texas, florida, puerto rico united states virgin islands. time, agency wrestling even harder problem: help communities prepare future flooding disasters could far severe anything seen year.complicating task fact trump administration largely hostile discussions global warming. august, week hurricane harvey made landfall texas, president trump rescinded obama-era executive order urged federal agencies take account climate change sea-level rise rebuilding infrastructure.climate change remains polarizing topic nation’s capital, fema caught middle. recent report government accountability office warned rising sea levels heavier downpours fueled global warming could increase flooding costs coastal communities $23 billion per year midcentury unless start adapting now.“there plenty people want debate vocabulary” around climate change, said roy e. wright, fema’s deputy associate administrator insurance mitigation. “but congress’ instruction us attend future risks reduce costs future disasters. look adaptation dimension, that’s resilience. that’s resilience future events.”as hurricane season unfolded, administration officials began hinting would craft new federal flood standard, though unclear whether would take account climate-change forecasts. and, mr. wright said, fema still moving forward initiatives aimed helping states cities defend future floods. even states led governors reject climate science, like wisconsin florida, taking steps prepare worsening flood risks climate change could bring.but controversy around climate rule illustrates tricky preparing future disasters today’s political landscape, especially since experts argue adapting stronger storms several feet sea level rise could require upfront investments beyond federal government willing consider date.“i don’t think scale need sunk in,” said david w. titley, retired rear admiral former chief oceanographer navy heads climate center pennsylvania state university. “we’re talking elevating structures foot. we’re talking elaborate flood defenses relocation efforts could cost billions — trillions.”most planning floods happens state local level, officials making decisions build homes high elevate buildings floodplains. severe disaster like hurricane strikes, federal government typically steps aid recovery.“communities states often want allow much development possible, reap tax revenue,” said larry larson, director emeritus association state floodplain managers. “but there’s major disaster, federal government bail out.”that, experts say, lead type moral hazard. studies shown one dollar invested pre-disaster mitigation prevent four dollars average losses. cities aren’t paying full price losses, may less incentive take costly difficult measures avoid flooding first place — like restricting development along coasts.under national flood insurance program, fema maps areas country risk flooding requires homeowners zones buy federal insurance polices communities enforce minimum construction standards, like elevating new homes 100-year floodplain, area 1 percent probability flood given year.yet there’s broad consensus flood insurance program inadequate, partly maps often outdated don’t take account future flood risks expanding development climate change, partly minimum standards often proved insufficient face severe floods.because congress unlikely refuse aid desperate citizens major flood, fema often strategically nudge localities taking preventive action.after hurricane sandy battered northeast 2012, fema officials took harder look else agency might encourage stronger flood preparation — particularly climate scientists warning floods expected get worse time.“i discussion president obama said, ‘craig, discussion climate change over, need start thinking adaptation,’” said w. craig fugate, fema administrator 2009 2017. “that’s went back team said: start planning future?”in 2015, white house issued executive order requiring infrastructure projects get federal funding rebuilt two three feet 100-year floodplain, take account best available climate science planning. order opposed homebuilders, said would increase costs. (fema working implement order mr. trump rolled back august.)another obama-era change: order qualify disaster aid, states would consider effects climate change hazard mitigation plans submit fema every five years, detailing risks face floods disasters, well possible steps might take minimize losses.most states aren’t scheduled submit updated plans 2018. wisconsin, state whose governor disavowed climate science, submitted one first mitigation plans december described detail global warming could affect state urged measures prepare things like heavier rainfall events. “climate resilience,” plan noted, “is state national priority.”fema also began folding climate adaptation program allows cities receive discounts flood-insurance premiums take additional steps reduce flood risk. community rating system, cities get credit planning effects rising sea levels. officials florida keys planning take advantage credits map vulnerable roadways.a week mr. trump entered white house, fema also unveiled proposal “public assistance deductible,” states would responsible greater portion cost disaster recovery unless took steps like enacting stricter building codes limit exposure disasters. proposal, yet implemented, may face pushback states homebuilders, environmentalists fiscal conservatives say could lessen moral hazard around flood policy.experts caution fema much own. “they can’t force hands communities,” said laura lightbody, director pew charitable trusts’ flood-prepared communities initiative. “ultimately it’s local leaders take responsibility.”“but,” added, “i think federal government woken fact need start thinking seriously future risk.”since coming office, mr. trump moved quickly repeal obama-era policies focused curbing greenhouse gas emissions causing climate change vowed withdraw united states paris climate accord.but, apart rollback mr. obama’s flood order, trump administration restrained directly targeting measures aimed adapting future disasters. environmental protection agency scrubbed mentions global warming website, fema’s climate adaptation page remains.mr. wright, held fema position since 2013, said agency still pursuing many mitigation efforts begun previous administration, working quadruple investments pre-disaster mitigation 2023. administration officials contemplating new federal flood standard could guide post-disaster rebuilding efforts.asked whether skepticism climate change might impede efforts, mr. wright said, “i never experienced obstacle. say full stop.”mr. fugate, former fema administrator, warier: “the direction administration uncertain, hope they’re focused getting rid anything might suggest climate change problem.”alice c. hill, helped develop obama administration’s climate resilience strategy, different concern: unless administration actively engaged adaptation efforts, less likely programs would expand future.“within administration, it’s easy urgent overcome important,” said. “at point, climate change become urgent, it’s still important category — doesn’t need get done today. unless somebody’s actively pushing agencies act, won’t get done.”for example, 2012, congress created advisory council help fema improve flood insurance program maps. council made dozens recommendations, including ways fema could produce maps accounted climate risks help communities plan future.but task costly, requiring airborne mapping much country, congress hasn’t provided sufficient funds fema implement it. first budget, mr. trump proposed cuts mapping programs.ms. hill said adaptation programs may best chance survival they’re explicitly framed climate measures. “this whole issue become highly politicized,” said. “but longer i’ve worked issue, less care call it. talk fiscal risk. fiscally conservative approach.”that framing may catch on. october, representative mark sanford, republican south carolina, wrote letter 14 lawmakers calling white house reinstate federal flood standard. letter avoided mention climate change, noted flood disasters getting worse time — federal taxpayers hook.“taxpayer dollars spent rebuild repair public infrastructure — sometimes multiple times,” letter said. “it makes sense.”while climate experts praised steps fema taken push localities prepare climate change, argue far needed.“i’m proud work we’ve here” mitigation, mr. wright said. “but looking harvey, irma, maria — puts bright light it. we’ve got long way still go.”in florida keys, scientists project ocean levels may rise 2 7 inches 2030, 9 24 inches 2060.“we probably handle what’s happening next 20 years, look beyond that, that’s different conversation,” ms. haag said. sea-level rise ends high end current projections, keys may need extensive aid state federal governments adapt.dr. titley notes netherlands may spend hundreds billions dollars climate-proof shores. “and coastline,” said, “is size massachusetts connecticut combined. math.”robert s. young, directs program study developed shorelines, asserts federal lawmakers may eventually take drastic steps. 1980s, congress passed coastal barrier resource act, identified barrier islands risk flooding declared federal government would longer send aid areas.“it may time start adding places list,” mr. young said. “we need nation decide whether makes sense federal government hold every shoreline place forever.”a move like would politically explosive. 2012, congress passed bill reduce subsidies federal flood insurance high-risk areas, better reflect hazards involved. protests homeowners, congress partly reversed two years later.“if climate adaptation marathon, we’ve run first 50 yards far,” dr. titley said. “grudgingly.”
mass murderers insane? usually not, researchers say people reflection are, devin p. kelley, slaughtered 26 churchgoers sunday texas, surely madman.before atrocity, attempted sneak weapons onto air force base making death threats superiors, according local police report. 2012, escaped mental hospital new mexico sent assaulting wife fracturing stepson’s skull.a video church killing reportedly shows mr. kelley working way methodically aisles, shooting parishioners, even children, point-blank range.“i think mental health problem here,” president trump told reporters monday.it true severe mental illnesses found often among mass murderers. one five likely psychotic delusional, according dr. michael stone, forensic psychiatrist columbia university maintains database 350 mass killers going back century. figure general public closer 1 percent.but rest murderers severe, diagnosable disorder. though abusive wife, omar mateen, killed 49 people orlando nightclub, apparent serious mental illness. neither stephen paddock, mowed 58 concertgoers hotel window las vegas.ditto dylann roof, racist murdered nine african-american churchgoers south carolina 2015, christopher harper-mercer, angry young man killed nine people community college oregon year.nor anything criminals’ history — including domestic violence, like mr. kelley’s — serve reliably predict spectacularly cruel acts. even spree killers committed domestic violence disproportionately often — assertion dispute — vast majority men guilty crime never proceed mass murder.most mass murderers instead belong rogue’s gallery disgruntled aggrieved, whose anger intentions wax wane time, eventually curdling violence wake perceived humiliation.“in almost high-end mass killings, perpetrator’s thinking evolves,” said kevin cameron, executive director canadian center threat assessment trauma response.“they passing thought. think more, fantasize, slowly build justification. prepare, right set circumstances comes along, unleashes rage.”this evolution proceeds rationally logically, least murderer’s mind. unthinkable becomes thinkable, inevitable.researchers define mass killings event leaving four dead place time. incidents occur average one day across united states; make national headlines.at least half perpetrators die act, either committing suicide (mr. kelley said shot head) felled police.analyzing database, dr. stone concluded 65 percent mass killers exhibited evidence severe mental disorder; 22 percent likely psychosis, delusional thinking hallucinations characterize schizophrenia, sometimes accompany mania severe depression. (the remainder likely depressive antisocial traits.)among psychotic, counts jared loughner, arizona man shot rep. gabrielle giffords, democrat arizona, 18 others 2011. accounts, including own, mr. loughner becoming increasingly delusional.adam lanza, 2012 killed 26 people sandy hook elementary newtown, conn., exhibited extreme paranoia months leading crime, isolating room.but make john robert neumann jr., june shot killed five former co-workers warehouse orlando turning gun himself? mr. neumann overtly psychotic, far anyone knows, far typical men commit mass killings generally.“the majority killers disgruntled workers jilted lovers acting deep sense injustice,” mentally ill, dr. stone said research.in 2016 analysis 71 lone-actor terrorists 115 mass killers, researchers convened department justice found rate psychotic disorders dr. stone discovered: roughly 20 percent.the overall rate psychiatric history among mass killers — including probable diagnoses depression, learning disabilities a.d.h.d. — 48 percent.about two-thirds group faced “long-term stress,” like trouble school keeping job, failure business, disabling physical injuries from, say, car accident.substance abuse also common: 40 percent problems alcohol, marijuana drugs.looking studies, using data work, j. reid meloy, forensic psychologist consults f.b.i., identified believes common thread: “paranoid spectrum,” calls it.at extreme end full-on psychosis loughner variety. majority people spectrum deeply ill; rather, injustice collectors. prone perceive insults failures cumulative, often blame one person one group.“if paranoid streak, vigilance, sense others persecuting years, there’s accumulation maltreatment intense urge stop persecution,” dr. meloy said.“that may never happen. person may never act urge. do, typically there’s triggering event. it’s loss love work — something starts clock ticking, starts planning.”mental health treatment might make difference one five murderers severe mental disorders, experts say. prevention also possible cases — instance, perpetrators make overt threats threats reported.but factors must weighed.“in large file mass murders, look decade decade, numbers victims fairly small 1960s,” said dr. stone. “that’s deaths start going way up. ak-47s kalashnikovs uzis — semiautomatic weapons, became easily accessible.”
congress weighs repeal tax credit rare disease drugs decades-old tax credit designed spur cures rare diseases successful it’s become target house republican tax plan.the proposal consideration would end tax breaks development called orphan drugs. ending credit used big small drug companies could save government estimated $54 billion next decade, effort help offset anticipated losses revenue republican tax cut provisions become law.with senate poised offer broad tax plan soon, many details still flux. orphan drug tax credit eliminated, move would represent rare defeat powerful pharmaceutical industry.the tax credit part popular 1983 orphan drug act, one host incentives supporters say led approval 500 new much-needed drugs rare diseases affect fewer 200,000 people. program also come scrutiny critics say major drugmakers exploited obtaining orphan designation billion-dollar blockbuster drugs like humira treating rheumatoid arthritis crestor, cholesterol drug, already market.even proposal passes house, likely face opposition senate, particularly senator orrin hatch, republican utah, overseeing tax reform senate leading sponsor orphan drug act.no matter happens, experts welcomed discussion political issue considered untouchable opponents risked labeled coldhearted toward people serious medical conditions.“i think opens debate orphan drug tax credit, think flawed incentive,” said james love, director consumers group knowledge ecology international. “and think that’s positive thing.”under current law, companies develop drugs rare diseases receive tax credit half cost clinical trials also granted seven years exclusivity, drug protected competition. companies required disclose amounts tax credits receive.mr. love said favored replacing tax credit direct government subsidies clinical trials rare-disease treatments.in public, pharmaceutical industry’s largest lobbying groups said much credit. biotechnology innovation organization, whose members include smaller companies, praised overall tax plan statement last week, disagreed elimination tax credit. major trade group, pharmaceutical research manufacturers america, whose members generally large public companies, said statement pleased congress taken tax overhaul and, without mentioning tax credit, encouraged policymakers “to maintain incentives” research rare-disease treatments.big drugmakers particular stand benefit proposed lower corporate tax rate loss tax credit companies use. like major corporations, industry’s opposition may coalescing far proposed excise tax could penalize companies manufacturing products overseas. days, many drugs made outside united states.companies make drugs treat rare diseases lobbyists already marshaling forces retain tax credit. tactics include enlisting patient-advocacy groups — many financed drug companies — members, whose life-threatening debilitating diseases often compelling effect pharmaceutical executives lawmakers public.“we didn’t prior warning,” said paul melmeyer, federal policy director national organization rare disorders, nord. “we look utter lack therapies patient populations. could even 33 percent fewer have, going forward, really concern is.”over last decade, number new drugs treat rare diseases proliferated, part advancements scientific research part drug companies found new ways profit diseases seen unworthy corporate investment. 2016, nine 22 new drugs approved food drug administration rare diseases; 2015, 21 45 drugs approved fell category.despite investment, advocates note 7,000 rare diseases identified, 5 percent approved therapy. 30 million americans rare disease, tenth population.while many rare-disease approvals bring advances patients, companies also seen taking advantage program seeking designation drugs would profitable anyway. drugmaker abbvie multiple approvals rare-disease uses humira, world’s best-selling drug, ranging form juvenile arthritis eye disease, uveitis. many new cancer approvals also receive orphan-drug designation targeted narrow slice population.with coveted exclusivity granted orphan-drug status, companies charge virtually anything want products, manufacturers set astronomical prices drugs gone bring billions sales. soliris, made alexion, racked $2.8 billion sales 2016 even though approved treat three rare diseases.in may, three republican senators, including senator hatch, asked government accountability office look possible abuses orphan drug act, prompted investigation kaiser health news. mr. melmeyer said think request showed change heart senator hatch, chairman finance committee may release tax plan early thursday.“we’re much counting step champion this,” mr. melmeyer said.in 2015, report commissioned biotechnology trade group nord estimated tax credit removed, number drugs approved next decade would decline 33 percent.eric davis, executive vice president general counsel biomarin pharmaceutical, develops describes “ultrarare” drugs, said tax credit “is really critical helping us get hump investment decisions, think that’s true lot companies space.”philip english, former republican congressman lobbies drug firms, said believed clients picking support republicans said confident tax credit would survive senate plan.“i think consensus within industry within advocacy community orphan drug credit immensely successful generating innovative investment produced string successes,” mr. english said.rachel klein, senior director advocacy strategy everylife foundation rare diseases, founded drug industry executive, said policymakers need careful tinkering program around decades.“what seem like small changes really large impact,” said. “ultimately could end harm good, really would problem millions people relying companies develop new therapies.”
gene therapy creates replacement skin save dying boy doctors europe used gene therapy grow sheets healthy skin saved life boy genetic disease destroyed skin, team reported wednesday journal nature.this first use treatment, adds gene therapy technique developed grow skin grafts burn victims. far body surface ever covered patient genetic disorder: nine square feet.the boy’s disease, junctional epidermolysis bullosa, causes extremely fragile skin blisters tears, prone infections skin cancer. expected die recovered. two years treatment, continues healthy skin lead normal life. video provided medical team shows boy, hassan, playing soccer father. according news reports, family originally syria.epidermolysis bullosa (epi-derm-uh-ly-sis bull-oh-suh) takes various forms, depending genetic mutation involved. 25,000 people united states condition, 500,000 worldwide. severity varies, patients spend much lives covered bandages severe pain.brett kopelan, child disease executive director support advocacy group, debra, said highly specialized dressings daughter needs cost $500,000 year.the treatment described new report offers hope patients all. every mutation corrected way one report.“it certainly made incredible transformation life boy,” said expert involved case, dr. jouni uitto, chairman department dermatology cutaneous biology sidney kimmel medical college thomas jefferson university philadelphia.“now it’s one case, sort remains seen what’s general applicability approach. issue is, what’s cost this?”dr. uitto also cautioned epidermolysis bullosa often involves damage internal tissue, like lining esophagus urinary tract, gene therapy skin cannot repair.dr. m. peter marinkovich, associate professor dermatology stanford university school medicine, said “blown away” presentation seen case. “gosh, it’s great advance,” said.dr. marinkovich conducting similar research published report year ago jama team treated smaller areas skin four adults different form disease.some improved, responses varied tended decline year. research continuing.the new report, said, “has taken next step actually used treat large amount skin. that’s what’s really incredible.”other researchers tried bone-marrow transplants correct genetic flaws disease, several children died side effects arduous treatment, results mixed survived.the boy nature article suffered since birth blisters body, 2015, 7, contracted bacterial infections caused lose two-thirds skin. doctors know treat him, keeping morphine pain.because burn victims also lose skin, doctors sent burn unit children’s hospital ruhr university bochum, germany. photograph shows emaciated body encased raw, crimson flesh.“we lot trouble keeping kid alive,” dr. tobias rothoeft, children’s hospital, said telephone briefing.doctors burn unit tried everything: antibiotics, bandages, special nutritional measures, skin transplant boy’s father. nothing worked.“after two months, sure could nothing kid would die,” dr. rothoeft said. physicians began discuss keeping boy comfortable. parents begged keep trying.the doctors pored medical journals decided approach dr. michele de luca, director center regenerative medicine stefano ferrari university modena reggio emilia modena, italy.his team treated smaller patches skin patient disease, expertise growing large skin grafts, used treat hundreds burn victims. also renowned field producing corneal grafts saved sight people eye injuries.“he promised could give us enough skin heal kid, tried, end successful,” dr. rothoeft said.dr. de luca described case “compassionate use experimental therapy” tested clinical trials.the doctors removed sample boy’s skin — slightly half square inch — took modena, genetically engineered cells, using virus insert normal form mutated gene dna.then grew engineered cells laboratory sheets skin transported back germany, surgeons grafted onto boy’s body.in october 2015, covered arms legs new skin, november, back. ultimately, replaced 80 percent child’s skin.dr. de luca said bandages removed, “it spectacular. great. removed gauze, saw epidermis underneath. everybody pretty happy. got feeling body kid recovering, responding. time thought, maybe make it.”a major concern type gene therapy inserted genetic material could dangerous side effects, like turning essential gene turning one could lead cancer.analyses patient’s new skin find added genetic material worrisome places, researchers reported. tests also showed long-lived stem cells maintained new skin, important finding underlines need careful cell culturing, dr. de luca said.the boy hospital almost eight months, dr. de luca said, including four months kept medically induced coma spare pain. drugs stopped weeks christmas.“when woke up,” dr. de luca said, “he realized new skin.”
democrats assail environmental nominees climate change washington — senate hearing nominees two top environmental posts wednesday quickly turned testy trump administration’s ambivalence climate change science.andrew r. wheeler, lobbyist murray energy, owned robert e. murray, appalachian coal mining magnate prominent backer president trump, nominated deputy administrator environmental protection agency.kathleen hartnett white, former texas environmental regulator described belief global warming “a kind paganism,” tapped lead white house council environmental quality.democratic members environment public works committee focused much hostility mrs. white, fellow texas public policy foundation former chairwoman texas commission environmental quality. democrats assailed past writings climate change, including articles called carbon dioxide “the gas life” described renewable energy parasitic.“your positions far mainstream, outliers, outrageous,” said senator edward j. markey, democrat massachusetts. “you fringe voice denies science, economics reality.”asked stood previous statements, mrs. white replied, “it’s likely co2 influence climate,” added carbon dioxide characteristics pollutant directly affects human health. “it’s plant nutrient,” said.the trump administration last week issued comprehensive report climate science said planet definitely growing warmer human activities predominant cause. despite unambiguous findings, administration officials nominees continue question validity climate change science.mr. wheeler, former aide senator james m. inhofe, oklahoma republican, faced lighter questioning. declined pledge recuse working lawsuits murray energy filed e.p.a., saying would abide guidance agency’s ethics advisers.midwestern republicans, meanwhile, pressed mrs. white past criticism renewable fuel standard, requires refiners blend corn-based ethanol gasoline. white house officials last month directed e.p.a. halt efforts weaken federal biofuel mandate pressure iowa politicians others threatened hold agency nominees.mrs. white said position recently changed read new data supported fuel standard.if two confirmed, go small way toward filling still largely empty ranks senior energy environmental posts, slowing trump administration’s ability achieve agenda. according partnership public service, nonpartisan nonprofit organization tracks federal nominations, 28 key positions e.p.a., energy department interior department require senate confirmation lack nominees.that includes critical positions like secretary nuclear energy energy department director united states geological survey, essentially serves interior department’s chief scientist. e.p.a., administrator, scott pruitt, confirmed senate. five others awaiting confirmation, including william l. wehrum lead agency’s air office michael l. dourson head chemical safety office. lawmakers acknowledged mrs. white mr. wheeler may confirmation vote end year, six e.p.a. positions still without nominee.even trump administration supporters applauded e.p.a.’s moves undo obama-era climate change rules said frustrated.“you talk talk, need people actually walk walk rolling back agendas,” said nicolas loris, research fellow energy environmental policy heritage foundation, conservative research group. “you need people staff place get process.”senator john barrasso, wyoming republican chairman senate environment public works committee, blamed democrats holding 11 environmental candidates panel approved 100 trump administration nominees across agencies. senate, example, yet confirm administrator nasa.“all year long democrats putting roadblocks president trump’s nominees,” said. “it’s time end pointless spectacle.”mr. trump indicated many vacancies may permanent. “i’m generally going make lot appointments would normally — don’t need them,” told forbes. “i mean, look agencies, massive are, it’s totally unnecessary. hundreds thousands people.”max stier, president partnership public service, agreed cases confirmations mr. trump’s nominees taking longer recent presidents. and, said, mr. trump may correct says 4,000 appointments every new president must make many largely unnecessary. still, said, 440 people nominated 1,200 jobs requiring senate confirmation, “the fault, bluntly, predominantly executive branch.”“nobody done quickly well,” mr. stier said. “president trump worse anyone else far.”
syria joins paris climate accord, leaving u.s. opposed washington — one.syria announced united nations climate talks tuesday would sign paris agreement climate change. move, comes heels nicaragua signing accord last month, leave united states country rejected global pact.according several people plenary session climate talks bonn, germany, syrian delegate announced country poised send ratification paris agreement united nations.“this last country actually announced, everyone joined u.s. isolated,” said safa al jayoussi, executive director indyact, environmental organization based lebanon works arab countries climate change.a white house spokeswoman, kelly love, pointed reporters statement administration made nicaragua joined pact, noting change united states’ position.“as president previously stated, united states withdrawing unless re-enter terms favorable country,” statement said.president trump announced rose garden speech summer united states would quit deal, calling bad america’s economy.the paris agreement, struck 2015 former president barack obama, calls nearly 200 countries voluntarily curb greenhouse gas emissions. time, nicaragua syria join, different reasons.nicaraguan leaders argued deal go far enough toward keeping carbon emissions safe levels helping vulnerable countries protect effects climate change. last month daniel ortega, nicaragua’s president, rosario murillo, vice president wife, said joint statement country would sign anyway. “the paris agreement, despite ideal agreement, instrument currently allows unity intentions efforts,” said.syria mired civil war since 2011. syrian government subject european american sanctions, leaders unable send representatives abroad negotiate sign pact.roua shurbaji, spokeswoman syrian mission united nations, said country’s decision part effort “to effective international areas including climate change.”syria yet submitted targets cutting greenhouse gases. syria produces tiny fraction global emissions, every country party accord, including poverty-stricken war-torn nations tiny islands, produced plan cutting carbon output.“we get there,” ms. shurbaji said. “we process becoming part agreement. commitments targets.”“with syria’s decision, relentless commitment global community deliver paris evident ever,” said paula caballero, director climate change program world resources institute. “the u.s.’s stark isolation give trump reason reconsider ill-advised announcement join rest world tackling climate change.”under rules paris agreement, united states cannot formally withdraw late 2020. then, administration officials said, continue negotiate terms deal, specified changes would sufficient united states reconsider quitting. american negotiators attending talks underway germany.
wolves know work together dogs evolved friendly tolerant humans one another, might suggest would good cooperative tasks.wolves known cooperate hunting even raising one another’s pups, seem pretty intolerant one another snapping growling around kill.so researchers wolf science center university vienna decided compare performance wolves dogs classic behavioral test.to get food treat, two animals pull ropes attached different ends tray. trick pull ropes time. chimps, parrots, rooks elephants succeeded task.when sarah marshall-pescini, friederike range colleagues put wolves dogs test, wolves well dogs poorly. recordings experiments, pairs wolves look like experts, dogs seem, well, adorable confused.the researchers reported findings proceedings national academy sciences.with training, five seven wolf pairs succeeded mastering task least once. one eight dog pairs did.with individual training intended show animals ropes held mouth, could get treat, three four wolf pairs succeeded multiple times. two six dog pairs succeeded — once.dr. marshall-pescini said wolves dogs raised exactly conditions center, live groups lot human contact kept pets. reason wolves performing much better, said, might wild must cooperate bringing big game sharing survive.dogs, whether free-ranging, foraging garbage dumps looking discarded food, don’t need teamwork.but defining tolerance, supposed aid cooperation, tricky.“wolves argue lot around food,” said. “but end eat together.” dogs, said, “they don’t even argue it.” earlier study free-ranging dogs, said, showed dominant dog ate first dogs waited.of course, pet dogs often eat together two bowls. dogs trained anything; even act training may change ability cooperate.in previous study, dogs highly trained — rope pull test, tasks — much better able succeed rope pull.
patients heart failure, little guidance death nears ricky hurst’s doctors told last year nothing could do. heart failing get affairs order. end coming.his family gathered. spoke pastor resigned death. “if meant be, meant be,” said.but. mr. hurst, 56, former ranger school football coach jackson, mich., still alive, although heart continues weaken. patients like raising new dilemma doctors.heart disease killed ruthlessly quickly; patients like mr. hurst succumbed heart attacks sudden death cardiac arrest. improved medical care implanted devices bolster heart, growing number heart patients survive years, even decades, coping chronic, progressive condition punctuated crises hospitalizations.their disease point called heart failure — weakened heart cannot pump enough blood supply body’s needs. number americans heart failure increased 6.5 million 2011-2014 5.7 million 2009-2012, according american heart association.more 10 percent age 80 heart failure, patients living longer advanced disease. even death rate heart attacks falling, figure heart failure rising.yet widely accepted guidelines dealing patients near death. cancer specialists regularly move patients hospice end life, instance, cardiologists even think it. heart patients account 15 percent hospice deaths, cancer patients make half, according recent study.that paper, published journal american college cardiology, reviewed number ways heart patients let end life. implanted defibrillators often remain activated end, example, even hospice.a fifth heart patients defibrillators get shocked last weeks life, 8 percent get shocked minutes dying. patients never told ask defibrillators turned off.“getting shocks end life really helping patients live longer better,” said dr. larry allen, heart failure specialist university colorado author study.“we shouldn’t single one cases happening,” said dr. haider warraich, cardiology fellow duke university first author study.experts often focus strides made preventing treating heart disease. incidence declined 70 percent past 50 years. people heart attacks later life used to, likely survive them, often live years afterward symptoms.“we proud” progress, said dr. patrice desvigne-nickens, medical officer national heart, lung blood institute.still, added, cardiologists patients discussing end-of-life options palliative care earlier course heart failure.“everyone uncomfortable end-of-life discussions,” said. “the field cancer may ahead us. learn looking example.”but cardiologists thrive dramatic saving lives, said dr. michael bristow, cardiologist university colorado denver. devote professional lives rescuing patients heart attacks bringing back brink.end-of-life care typically focus; neither spend much time pondering patients may experience future. “those go cardiology necessarily ones want deal death dying,” dr. bristow said.the nature end-stage heart failure makes difficult prepare.“very patients understand trajectory disease,” said dr. lynne warner stevenson, heart failure specialist vanderbilt university. path peaks valleys, patient declines, peak little lower one before.and often doctors tell patients expect.“unfortunately, patients chronic illness like heart failure, everyone thinks someone else talk it,” dr. stevenson said. “too often, one takes ownership last stage journey patient.”dr. ellen hummel university michigan, one small number doctors specializing cardiology palliative care, said typical patient cancer usually experience “fairly predictable” decline.“they less able take care themselves,” said. “they symptomatic come back hospital frequently. starts, probably continue die. people see end coming.”but patients end-stage heart failure likely wild swings, dr. hummel said, veering feeling better terribly ill.“it confusing patient provider. actually dying, rescue particular episode worsening?”dr. harlan krumholz, cardiologist yale university, agreed: “the issue knowing really end life.” patients heart failure, seesawing good periods bad, difficult make call.dr. allen recently discussed patient, ed harvey.mr. harvey, 75, implanted defibrillator, heart weakening, pumping progressively less blood. dr. allen gave medications helped while, but, dr. allen said, “we maxed done.”he can’t say certainty long mr. harvey has. time, dr. allen told him, talk end life.mr. harvey still feels pretty good, “when congestive heart failure getting better, know day going come,” said.he living heart failure decade, fears becoming burden heart gets worse. weak medical option left implantable pump. knows soon need full-time care.“i elected got point,” said, “put hospice let go.”
election results invigorate medicaid expansion hopes washington — election results maine virginia energized supporters expanding medicaid affordable care act several holdout states. months battling republican efforts repeal law, see political consensus shifting direction.groups idaho utah already working process getting medicaid expansion initiatives next year’s ballots, hoping follow maine’s path failing legislative route. outlook legislative approval brightened virginia democrats picked least 15 seats republican-controlled house delegates could potentially control chamber votes counted.advocacy groups also hoping decisive victory maine, exit polls suggesting health care top issue virginia, add momentum efforts kansas north carolina.“the results maine virginia send clear signal public interested moving past type obstruction we’ve seen policymakers states,” said katherine howitt, associate director policy community catalyst, consumer advocacy group.the expansion debate many states political stew, opposition mix fiscal concerns, philosophical resistance stiff political opposition obamacare, made medicaid expansion possible. many advocates hope growing public support expansion fading obama era mean softening opposition among governors legislators long resisted idea.expanding medicaid key provision affordable care act, meant ensure americans somewhat federal poverty line would qualify government health insurance. supreme court decision 2012 made choice expand coverage optional states. election day, 31 states district columbia chosen accept federal funding expand coverage.in virginia, outgoing democratic governor, terry mcauliffe, tried repeatedly expand medicaid, majority republican legislature kept blocking it. advocates hope democratic gains legislature, perhaps changes heart among republicans worried exit polls showing health care top concern, could mean enough votes approve expansion.in maine, legislators voted expand program five times, gov. paul lepage, republican, vetoed bill. though outcome ballot initiative subject veto, mr. lepage indicated statement wednesday administration implement change unless legislature identifies funding sources state portion program’s costs.expansion supporters insisted state choice expand medicaid, acknowledged mr. lepage could make difficult next year, last office.“he could violate law,” said robyn merrill, helped run pro-expansion campaign. “but people eligible coverage denied it, legal recourse.”not every state’s voters count ballot initiatives means expanding medicaid. fewer half states country allow citizen-driven initiatives, including largest declined expand, like texas georgia.neither kansas, republican-controlled legislature voted expand medicaid earlier year failed override veto gov. sam brownback. mr. brownback awaiting confirmation ambassador large position trump administration, lt. gov. jeff colyer, fellow republican would replace him, also indicated would resist expansion.still, david jordan, leads alliance healthy kansas, advocacy group, pointed mr. colyer becomes governor, face re-election year state polls found resounding support expanding medicaid.“yesterday’s results virginia maine send message him,” mr. jordan said. “it could become really tough go wave.”but many republican politicians, idea expanding medicaid remains hard love. providing government insurance coverage poor adults disabled anathema many. view help discouraging work, though data suggests new medicaid recipients jobs states expanded see reductions employment among low-income people.seema verma, administrator centers medicare medicaid services, oversees program, told state medicaid directors tuesday department would begin approving state plans condition medicaid coverage non-disabled adults work volunteer hours.“believing community engagement requirements support promote objectives medicaid tragic example soft bigotry low expectations consistently espoused prior administration,” ms. verma said. “those days over.”several states asked ms. verma’s office permission impose work requirements medicaid beneficiaries. matt salo, executive director national association medicaid directors, said thought work requirements might make expansion acceptable state legislatures, like florida’s, reluctant past. “you rebrand that,” said. “you effectively.”the federal government paid entire cost expanding medicaid first three years obamacare, changed year. states must pay 5 percent new beneficiaries’ medical bills, proportion increase 10 percent 2020. state expands need find funding pay share.states expanded medicaid expect spend $8.5 billion funds expansion 2018 fiscal year, according national association state budget officers.“every political decision value, value what’s return money,” said tony keck, former director south carolina’s department health human services, state expanded. mr. keck, hospital executive, said legislators thought important invest existing populations medicaid beneficiaries expand program cover childless adults.in utah, newly formed political committee called utah decides healthcare concluded seven required public hearings around state hopes soon start gathering 113,143 signatures needed get expansion question next year’s ballot. republican-controlled legislature could interfere initiative pass, rylee curtis, campaign manager utah effort, said doubted would gov. gary herbert state senate tried expand medicaid past.jonathan schleifer, executive director fairness project, left-leaning group founded california donated nearly $700,000 pro-expansion campaign maine, said group eager help efforts utah idaho scout states ballot initiatives might work.“grassroots groups states waiting see happened last night know what’s possible,” said mr. schleifer, voice hoarse whooping victory party maine tuesday night. “in next couple weeks we’ll able start talking states ability run initiatives grassroots enthusiasm that.”
kathy griffin’s wild show: defiant, shaken, fainting dublin — every era gets lenny bruce deserves. kathy griffin.on wednesday night, ms. griffin, 57, delivered wild two-hour-and-15-minute performance brought mind bruce’s late period, comic’s compelling exhausting shows featured blow-by-blow analysis legal battles government.at start ms. griffin’s performance, included raucous cheers, disarming boos premature finale fainted, warned: “i’m going stop talking i’m arrested.”a bit dramatic, sure, much might think. ms. griffin embarked international tour, “laugh head off,” american dates canceled photographed holding donald trump mask smeared ketchup. tmz’s headline: “kathy griffin beheads president trump.”even though mr. trump picked fights everyone meryl streep cast “hamilton” since elected, gone artist hard ms. griffin. wrote blistering tweet, wife released strongly worded formal statement son donald jr. harshly criticized fox news.while ms. griffin joked wednesday, “for two hours convince mom wasn’t isis,” stories resulting furor dark even chilling.as result tasteless photo, ms. griffin didn’t receive death threats, lose gigs sponsorship money, get fired host cnn’s annual new year’s eve special. also put no-fly list became subject secret service investigation for, says, “conspiracy assassinate president.” asked federal agent government going extremes, woman pointed upward, indicating, ms. griffin interpreted, came president himself.onstage, front red block letters spelling first name, ms. griffin wore blue dress fateful photo, appeared defiant one moment, shook next. singled stars sent support, fired back celebrities criticized photo (look out, alyssa milano debra messing), got emotional others, like anderson cooper, co-host new year’s eve, tweeted disapproval. “you know cher said?” ms. griffin said onstage, shifting impression friend. “well, wanted famous, bitch.”the entire episode showed outsider always said was, skewering famous somehow obsessed time. regard, she’s perfect match mr. trump, known nearly two decades, dating episode 1990s sitcom “suddenly susan” appeared. remembered moment wednesday: greeted “call donald,” responded, “call kathy.”mr. trump may come queens ms. griffin suburban chicago, time now, lived planet celebrity. though ms. griffin spent years making fun kim kardashian, moved next door reality tv star, mocking trump family wednesday (she called older sons “eddie munster date rape”), ms. griffin spilled secrets home life kanye west ms. kardashian: drive around rolls-royce golf cart keep mannequin taylor swift “famous” video house. “sometimes, late night, hear printing money,” quipped.ms. griffin write taut jokes; emerged west coast alt-comedy scene 1990s, comics reacting machine-gun-joke style comedy clubs building acts digressive stories conversational riffs. even then, ms. griffin relied highly personal revelations, often shameless sexual sprinkled celebrity dust. slept jack black, talked onstage, wrote talking it.she famous frivolity, derided peers obsession boldface names. it’s fair chalk ms. griffin’s success culture’s lust scandal stardom, though that’s certainly part it. “i guilty pleasure,” wrote best-selling 2009 memoir, “official book club selection.”ms. griffin, reveres joan rivers, belongs glorious show-business tradition hard-working, mouthy survivors ambition burn, instinct self-promotion chip shoulder. ever cared alienating someone famous get laugh — whether network executive, commander chief garden-variety actors best — doesn’t anymore. “i lot female hostility,” said wednesday, pivoting earnest glib. “it’s trendy.”some hostility directed toward harvey levin, tmz founder, andy cohen, host “watch happens live” replacement new year’s eve show. mr. cohen pretended didn’t know ms. griffin video tmz, ms. griffin responded 17-minute video criticized men misogyny. also revealed mr. levin’s phone number claimed mr. cohen offered cocaine twice (he denied it).onstage took shots again, variety insults leveled, thinly supported others, made seem tossing kitchen sink, funny ends. ms. griffin often veered off-course, referred “being united kingdom,” startled angry reaction dublin audience. packed crowd die-hard fans turned her, hissing booing. seemed thrown off-balance, trouble returning story, last time.some forceful directorial guidance could hone wandering series stories refined show sticks theme through-line revolving around mr. trump. messy, indulgent production instead gives us ms. griffin unfiltered, benefit seeming like backstage gossip session, albeit one lost steam headed past 60-minute mark dabbed sweat forehead.after two hours, ms. griffin started telling story mariah carey froze, looked slumped, suddenly silent. leaned microphone said: “randy, i’m going down.” boyfriend hurried onstage grabbed her. escorted offstage, said, “i’ll back.”the crowd gasped waited dark minutes, helped ms. griffin back microphone, muttered something hard hear cheers. clear show over. later apologized video, saying fainted.it shockingly anxious end evening, revealing perhaps toll sprawling tour (or recent controversies) taken her. counting force nature like ms. griffin mistake. condemnation trump photo fueled new show, collapse added drama evening lack it. exited assistance, turned crowd scrunched face self-mocking grimace seemed say: ridiculous this?
maimed unbowed, understands lies ahead gordon hayward edgar sosa, starting point guard new zealand breakers australia’s national basketball league, changing practice one morning last month heard commotion coming coach’s office, teammates watching boston celtics play cleveland cavaliers n.b.a.’s season opener.sosa soon learned teammates seen — celtics’ gordon hayward crumpled court quicken loans arena grisly injury contorted lower part left leg shape ampersand. safe remove far side world, sosa watched aftermath unfold television, part eerily familiar. spotted celtics’ al horford.“i saw al’s face,” sosa said recent telephone interview, “and face made happened me.”in 2011, horford playing dominican republic olympic qualifier argentina, sosa crashed basket and, clinical terms, sustained compound — open — fractures right tibia fibula.simply put, two bones lower leg cracked tore skin.“your leg isn’t supposed go way,” sosa said.in gruesome tradition quarterback joe theismann, whose football career ended sack snapped right leg “monday night football” 1985, sosa accepted place 21st-century emblem horrifying leg injuries. kevin ware (2013), paul george (2014) hayward (2017), sosa.“anytime something like happens,” said, “my twitter blows up.”as hayward begins long process rehabilitating dislocation fracture left ankle, sosa, 29, rare athlete understands hard road ahead. lived answer question: elite athlete come back mangling?every injury different, course, hayward’s path forward extra complexity dislocation involves torn ligaments.at news conference last week, hayward said still susceptible dark thoughts — “i lasting image mind rolling looking it,” said — wanted attack rehabilitation. all-star forward signed four-year, $128 million contract celtics july, hayward also said relieved surgeons find cartilage damage, would presented another set challenges.“i’m putting zero expectations far timetable,” said.sosa, grew upper manhattan starred harlem’s rice high school playing louisville, relate all: deep desire recover everything lost, daily bouts self-doubt, nightmarish images linger.“i thought career over,” said.in september 2011, sosa fresh first season pro — good one. playing team called angelico biella italy’s top league, sosa averaged 14.1 points 4.5 assists game. based body work, sosa said, new orleans hornets invited attend training camp.but still weeks away sosa joined dominican republic’s national team fiba americas championship. late stages blowout win panama, john calipari, dominican republic’s coach, urged sosa stay aggressive. heeding calipari’s advice, sosa drove basket absorbed contact defender looked draw charge. sosa fell, leg buckled him.he immediately knew something wrong: right shin broken half. lower part leg simply dangled, long sock wore kept ankle foot attached rest body.orlando antigua, one team’s assistants, rushed sosa’s side shooed away camera operator. sosa remember screaming — felt physical pain. instead, mind raced. thought future. thought n.b.a. thought worst.after spending two days hospital argentina, sosa flown dominican republic, surgeons put titanium rod several screws leg. came hard part.unlike hayward, small army specialists caring him, sosa essentially unemployed. dominican national team covered cost surgery, said, returned home new york without health insurance. savings season italy bonus national team support indefinite future.knowing rehabilitation would do-it-yourself project, sosa became self-taught expert compound fractures.“i’ve never read much anything life,” said.robinson frias, personal trainer childhood friend, found books topic. made vanderbilt y.m.c.a. east 47th street unofficial headquarters. sosa began spending six hours day there, six days week. (“every day except sunday,” said.) swam. lifted weights. got massages.“we took mind-set feel better today yesterday, something week couldn’t last week, you’re right,” sosa said.after two months crutches, graduated walking boot. four months, wore sneakers again. hang-ups. walking staircases terrified him. weeks — months, even — afraid put weight right foot. would grip railing sides hop steps.“it mental,” sosa said.after six months, sosa took first tentative steps back onto court attempted set shots. frias suggested sosa take dribble shooting.“no, i’m ready,” sosa recalled telling him.“come on, man,” frias said. “just try it.”sosa found courage take pull-up jumper. landed.“and nothing happened,” said.if huge milestone, sosa experienced setbacks, too. nine months process, still trouble flexing right ankle. surgeons removed two screws base titanium rod, seemed help.by july 2012, 10 months breaking leg, sosa returned competition dominican republic. then, bringing ball upcourt exhibition united states, planted felt sharp pain left foot.“chris paul might putting little pressure me, nothing crazy,” sosa said. “and felt like, ‘yo, hell?’ i’m floor.”sosa fractured fifth metatarsal, long bone outside foot connects little toe. suspected happened overcompensated lingering effects injury right leg.his plan play sacramento kings’ summer league team? gone.“at time life, it,” sosa said. “i decided get surgery. tired surgery. tired seeing doctors.”and tired rehab, stuck it. 2013, back (again), playing professional teams puerto rico dominican republic. months later, secured contract ratiopharm ulm germany’s basketball bundesliga. thankful.“they gave opportunity,” said. “i able get career back track.”sosa’s career since taken iran, back italy new zealand, leads team scoring. celtics hoped best hayward, horford said took solace sosa’s comeback.“it make feel good gordon,” horford said interview. “i think whole thing make sure doesn’t try get ahead himself. rehab process right way, able come back ready go.”sosa never summoned nerve watch entire video fall. watch first part, leaves feet, said, turn away. also cannot help wonder life might different gotten hurt. dreamed n.b.a.“i try think it,” said. “i speak family they’re like, ‘you know, part god’s plan.’ felt like close.”still, sosa said grateful playing all. runs jumps hardly remembers injury, said. last week, drained game-winning 3-pointer lift breakers last-second win cairns taipans. tough break, game whole.
‘tell story everyone’: readers affected mass killings offer advice fellow survivors reader center newsroom initiative helping times build deeper ties audience.in painful aftermath church shooting sutherland springs, tex., left 26 people dead sunday, asked readers affected similar attacks share experiences tell us coped, hopes advice offer might help others facing tragedy. heard 150 people less day.their responses suggest mass killings touch myriad lives — bystanders, first responders, close-knit communities, families friends lost, among others — effects powerful, lingering often hard talk about.david silberman brooklyn, n.y., survived deadly 1985 grenade attack vienna airport 16 found cathartic simply put experience words: “thank giving place tell story,” wrote. “i don’t get tell often. don’t know got it. haunting, one ever wanted talk me. scary, foreign part anyone else’s reality.”over all, affected sugarcoat suffering; coping better others. found way go on, many expressed hope could provide road map survivors like sutherland springs, taking first steps tough path.(some replies edited condensed clarity.)mandi burkett, austin, tex. affected shooting wedgwood baptist church fort worth, tex., 1999andie caputo, smyrna, del. affected shooting las vegas 2017jon ferguson, vancouver, wash. affected shooting seattle’s capitol hill neighborhood 2006brad geiger, logan, ohio affected shooting aurora, colo., 2012mary kay mace, petersburg, ill. affected shooting northern illinois university 2008dora totoian, roseburg, ore. affected shooting umpqua community college oregon 2015jonas nahoum, santa fe, n.m. affected shooting newtown, conn., 2012barb cone, concord, mass. affected downing pacific southwest airlines flight 1771 1987jolanda arnold, lorton, va. affected shooting washington navy yard 2013
alternatives opioids pain relief combination tylenol advil worked well opioids relief pain emergency room, randomized trial found.researchers studied 416 men women arrived e.r. moderate severe pain arms legs sprains, strains, fractures injuries. randomly assigned oral dose acetaminophen (tylenol) either ibuprofen (advil) opioids oxycodone, hydrocodone codeine. two hours later, questioned using 11-point pain scale.the average score 8.7 taking medicine. score decreased 4.3 points ibuprofen tylenol, 4.4 oxycodone tylenol, 3.5 hydrocodone tylenol, 3.9 codeine tylenol. words, significant difference, either statistically clinically, among four regimens. study jama.the lead author, dr. andrew k. chang, professor emergency medicine albany medical college, said single patient might find opioids effective, average, even severe pain fractures, non-opioids worked well.“some docs reflexively give opioid anyone fracture,” dr. chang said. “but give non-opioid show patient works, help ongoing opioid problem.”
ketones rev workouts? ketone supplements supposed mimic effects high-fat, low-carb diet become popular recently among athletes looking performance boost.but new study suggests supplements may work advertised could kinds gastrointestinal side effects make starting, let alone completing, event almost impossible.anyone spends time around serious endurance athletes advisers probably heard chatter enthusiasm high-fat, low-carb diets. diets supposed enable body become better able use fat fuel.carbohydrates are, course, body’s preferred source quick fuel muscles activity. bodies store relatively small amounts may almost exhaust stores prolonged intense exertion, forcing us slow stop.but us plentiful stores fat. became able efficiently use source exercise fuel, could continue longer intensively (and also, desired, rid excess body fat).inspired possibility, athletes nutritionists tout diets contain almost carbohydrates large amounts fat. time, diets lower body’s stores carbohydrates require burn fat almost exclusively.such diets also result abundance ketones, substances produced liver muscles brain use fuel.the problem takes weeks or, commonly, months body adjust low-carbohydrate diet. interim, athletic performance suffers people feel sluggish unwell, sometimes developing condition known “ketone flu” resembles food poisoning.so athletes advisers begun wonder whether taking ketone supplements might allow athletes gain benefits high-fat diet without long, difficult transition time. various types supplements, form powders drinks, chemically identical ketones made body. also widely available many stores and, now, legal international doping regulations.last year, much-discussed study conducted researchers oxford university found proprietary type ketone supplement improved cycling performance group trained riders.but study looked relatively moderate exercise, kind intense exertion required competition.so new study, published last month frontiers physiology, scientists australian institute sport institutions decided create real-world test ketone supplementation.conveniently, ready-made group volunteers 11 members men’s professional, world-class bicycling team begin preseason training australia. team’s members, ridden tour de france international events, keenly interested possible benefits ketone supplements, according louise burke, head sports nutrition australian institute sport study’s senior author.the experiment scientists concocted simple. hour training session, gave rider drink contained either ketones placebo. drinks looked tasted much same. riders second dose drink immediately starting. (the drink used is, far, available research purposes sale public.)then men rode stationary bicycles programmed recreate screen 31-kilometer (about 19 miles) course 2017 road-cycling world championship. riders virtually raced highest pace power output could maintain.each rider rode drinking placebo and, another day, swallowing ketones.the results unanimous. every rider performed worse drinking ketone supplement. times 2 percent slower power output almost 4 percent less, declines that, actual competition, would drop contention medals.every rider also reported degree gastrointestinal upset drinking ketone supplement. one experienced “prolonged vomiting dizziness,” scientists reported, could start time trial. others symptoms ranging dry retching relatively mild nausea.not surprisingly, riders guessed trial ketones, based stomachs’ reactions. told scientists thought riding faster trial, pedaling felt difficult. told performance fact declined, almost announced longer interested using ketones performance enhancement.this study short-term, however. possible riders stomachs might adjust supplement time perhaps gain benefits, dr. burke says. study also show whether stomach upset alone clobbered riders’ performance physiological processes involved. riders’ brains could interpreted sudden presence ketones indicating metabolic problem, dr. burke says, responded sending messages muscles urging slow down.the upshot far research needs conducted experts make recommendations ketone supplementation athletes, dr. burke says. “everyone wants simple answers,” says, body’s mechanisms complex allow that, especially sports.in meantime, one practical caveat bear mind currently available supplements, says. almost “taste nasty.”
pesticides tied problems assisted pregnancies eating fruits vegetables high pesticides may lower chance successful birth assisted reproductive technology, according new report.researchers studied 325 women undergoing fertility treatment boston. collected data medical lifestyle factors women fill food frequency questionnaires. using data united states department agriculture, samples produce pesticide residue, calculated amount residue women ate. list fruits vegetables “pesticide residue score” appears study, published jama internal medicine.the 325 women 228 live births. women highest one-quarter high-pesticide residue produce consumption 18 percent lower probability pregnancy 26 percent lower probability live birth lowest one-quarter.the senior author, dr. jorge e. chavarro, associate professor nutrition harvard t.h. chan school public health, noted one study, would replicated firm conclusions drawn.still, said, “if really want eat peaches spinach” — two contaminated foods list — “it makes sense switch organic version. literature clear whether switching health consequences. first study knowledge suggest does.”
women likely men die first year heart attack compared men, women significantly higher risk death first year heart attack, new study found.the generally higher risk death women heart attacks well known, differences largely explained women’s older age attack occurs, higher rates diseases, types treatment typically receive.this new analysis, published plos one, controlled variables others. researchers studied 802 men 802 women matched age, hypertension, diabetes, smoking status, various measures heart function types treatment medications received.in first year five-year follow-up, women 60 percent likely die male counterparts. beyond first year, men’s women’s death rates differ.the reasons unclear, authors suggest higher levels psychological stress depression women may play role. data assess factors.“we follow female patients carefully,” said senior author, dr. georg schmidt, professor cardiology technical university munich germany. “as doctors, ask patients concerns, look opportunities support beyond drugs standard treatments.”
delhi, blanketed toxic haze, ‘has become gas chamber’ new delhi — toxic haze blanketing new delhi severe tuesday politicians announced plans close schools, flights delayed chief minister delhi state said city “become gas chamber.”for arvind kumar, chest surgeon three decades, situation adding growing health crisis region. “i don’t see pink lungs even among healthy nonsmoking young people,” said telephone interview tuesday. “the air quality become bad even nonsmoker still suffering.”the thick, acrid fog new delhi, settles around time every year, covering capital vehicle emissions smoke burning crops neighboring states fireworks diwali, hindu festival lights. recent years, problem appears worsened.on tuesday, levels dangerous air particles, called pm 2.5, reached 700 micrograms per cubic meter parts city, according data united states embassy. experts say prolonged exposure high concentrations pm 2.5 equivalent smoking two packs cigarettes day.officials struggled control pollution national capital region, includes delhi home 45 million people. ban sale firecrackers diwali october appeared keep problem check, illegal burning crops, contributes significantly pollution time year, started.the situation prompted state’s chief minister, arvind kejriwal, say twitter: “delhi become gas chamber. every year happens part year. find soln crop burning adjoining states.”imran hussain, environment minister delhi, said twitter august written officials states haryana, punjab, rajasthan uttar pradesh requesting reduction agricultural fires, action taken, government spokesman said twitter tuesday.the fires, combined car exhaust, smokestack emissions burning garbage, contribute pollution levels often hover “severe” category, highest level designated central pollution control board.an article last month medical journal lancet found pollution responsible 2.5 million deaths india 2015, country.manish sisodia, deputy chief minister delhi, said tuesday “all options” reducing pollution considered. government suggested reintroducing alternate-days limit use private cars, using helicopters sprinkle water help clear air.at news conference late tuesday, mr. sisodia announced classes primary schools would suspended wednesday, possibly longer. last year, government temporarily closed 1,800 schools string especially polluted days.dr. sarath k. guttikunda, air pollution specialist director independent research group urban emissions, said keeping children home could reduce exposure air pollution, especially areas vehicles emissions high.but dr. kumar, chest surgeon, said unconvinced government’s approach curbing pollution. problem would continue, added, unless city’s residents put greater collective pressure politicians devise sustainable solutions.“the options delhi residents three,” dr. kumar said. “one stop breathing. possible. second quit delhi. also possible. third make right breathe fresh air people’s movement.”
could allergic additives food drugs? kammy eisenberg broke hives last december, attributed stress. rash persisted, ms. eisenberg covered hives “from head toe” eight months.“it everywhere,” said ms. eisenberg, 52, lives atlanta. “i beyond itchy.” even powerful drugs like prednisone provided moderate relief, said. “my allergist loss.”she eventually consulted dr. robert swerlick, emory university dermatologist known take difficult cases, reviewed medical record suggested since allergic sulfa drugs, might also sensitive dyes used color medications.within days, ms. eisenberg switched anti-allergy pills, contained two blue dyes, even though looked white, dye-free brand.“the day switched, 90 percent better,” ms. eisenberg said, adding, “i swallowing problem handful every day.”doctors disagree whether food additives like dyes, preservatives, stabilizers, emulsifiers substances provoke true allergic reaction. medical journals published case reports allergic responses food additives, including anaphylaxis, potentially life-threatening reaction causes throat constrict. many allergists say reactions extremely rare, noting reports anecdotal rigorous double-blinded studies found evidence allergies food additives exist.“it’s very, rare see hives chemical that’s food additive, small molecules typically don’t trigger allergic reactions,” said dr. scott sicherer, professor pediatrics, allergy immunology icahn school medicine mount sinai. “no one’s saying doesn’t happen, reports literature handfuls — they’re thousands.”in 1986, however, dozen deaths linked severe allergic reactions sulfite preservatives used prevent green vegetables turning brown, food drug administration banned restaurants using sulfites raw fruits vegetables.the agency also requires foods containing yellow dye no. 5 list color label, saying dye cause hives rare cases, estimated “fewer one 10,000 people.”in recent years, however, consumer demand natural foods risen, food manufacturers replacing synthetic additives natural ones derived plants, insects animal products. natural substances likely provoke allergic reaction contain proteins immune systems might react to, said dr. ronald simon, allergist immunologist scripps clinic carmel valley san diego, reviewed literature uptodate, clinical information resource used doctors.these natural additives include substances like red food dye called carmine cochineal extract, made insects; yellow dye made fruit annatto tree; psyllium, source dietary fiber derived seed husks; guar gum, made bean used binder emulsifier food drugs. implicated rare cases anaphylaxis.allergic reactions also reported carrageenin, thickener derived seaweed; jelling agent pectin; gelatin; mycoprotein/, fermented fungus used meat substitute marketed brand name quorn.our immune system recognizes natural proteins, dr. simon said, “because evolved protect us invading organisms recognize protein structures fungi bacteria cancer cells.” said immune system less likely recognize synthetic additive. (dr. simon acknowledged served consultant food additives international association color manufacturers.)dr. swerlick, dermatologist treated ms. eisenberg, agreed reactions synthetic additives rare well understood, making even difficult identify. 2013 paper, described 11 patients seen five-year period, came chronic skin disorders cleared significantly drugs containing coloring replaced dye-free medications. (skeptics say hives generally come go proof removal dyes caused patients’ skin clear.)each dr. swerlick’s cases slightly different, said, “a bit detective work.” one 61-year-old patient chronic skin problems hand, rash flared suddenly, shortly refilled prescription diabetes pills noticed color changed off-white dark purple. new pills, turned out, contained blue dye. another patient, 42-year-old man, suffered rash almost year noticed resolved went vacation left toothpaste, contained blue dye, home.many patients “a drug allergy list that’s 20 drugs long,” dr. swerlick said. “you realize can’t allergic medications. must something common them, like dye. that’s one clues.”he said people concerned dye additives watch reactions items contain food coloring, red velvet cake drinks like powerade crystal light. patients look ingredients prescription nonprescription drugs reading label using online resource daily med.unlike severe allergic reactions food, like peanuts, occur immediately, reactions additives tend delayed several hours even days, making difficult trace, said, good diagnostic tools identifying food additive allergies. one hint may allergy additive develop reaction prepared product restaurant item, even though tolerate food make home.“there’s reason skeptical,” dr. swerlick said. “but think allergy community historically equated absence proof proof absence.”
cvs offer next-day delivery prescription drugs cvs health said monday would begin offering next-day delivery prescription drugs same-day service big cities next year, reflecting company’s worries potential competition amazon.cvs health also said retail sales declined third quarter year, dip company said occurred three major hurricanes forced many stores close.amazon’s possible expansion prescription drugs set pharmacy industry edge recent months, igniting fears online behemoth upend existing business much way disrupted consumer markets, books household supplies groceries.amazon publicly announced plans. acquired several state-level permits wholesale pharmacy distributor past year recently hired handful executives drug industry.anxiety market upheaval said partly driven cvs enter talks aetna, large health insurer, potential acquisition. larry merlo, president chief executive cvs health, discuss potential deal call analysts monday.free delivery available “within hours” prescription drug orders, well “curated selection over-the-counter products” manhattan beginning dec. 4, company said. same-day delivery would expand miami, boston, philadelphia, washington, d.c. san francisco early next year. next-day delivery, local stores, would become available rest country.a cvs spokeswoman, erin pensa, said delivery fees outside manhattan vary location, yet made public. also said company’s delivery partner announced, “we’ve able use scale negotiate low-cost, affordable options cvs pharmacy customers.”“our goal meet needs customers wherever, however whenever want,” helena foulkes, executive vice president cvs health president cvs pharmacy, said statement monday.cvs said monday retail sales, include prescription sales, fell 2.7 percent third quarter, although offset performance pharmacy services business, manages drug benefits employers insurers. unit saw revenues increase 8.1 percent. overall, third-quarter revenues increased 3.5 percent, $1.6 billion, $46.2 billion, compared third quarter 2016.
chopin’s heart, pickled jar, offers clues death heart frederic chopin, pickled jar alcohol encased stone pillar holy cross church warsaw, shows polish composer died complications tuberculosis, according early version article published american journal medicine.according article, published final form february title “a closer look frederic chopin’s cause death,” researchers found chopin’s heart “submerged amber-brown liquid,” thought cognac, often used tissue preservation.the researchers open jar, could see chopin’s heart “massively enlarged floppy,” wrote article. also covered white substance gave “frosted” appearance, leading researchers conclude chopin suffered pericarditis, inflammation tissue around heart likely result tuberculosis. previous theories held may died cystic fibrosis.the heart long contentious history. chopin, died paris 1849 age 39, dreaded buried alive, asked body cut open burial heart sent warsaw. accordingly, heart cut out, sealed crystal jar smuggled past russian authorities poland.during warsaw uprising 1944, occupying german forces, anxious chopin’s status polish national icon, suppressed performances music. heart removed church kept headquarters ss commander erich von dem bach-zelewski. war, returned church interred pillar inscribed verse matthew: “for treasure is, heart also.”on evening april 14, 2014, small group included polish scientists, church officials members chopin institute disinterred jar examined contents secret. account published months later associated press thick intrigue: “with feeling mystery hanging air, worked total concentration, mostly whispering, removed heart resting place carried inspection — taking 1,000 photos adding hot wax jar’s seal prevent evaporation.”one scientists, dr. tadeusz dobosz, told a.p., “the spirit night sublime.”dr. michal witt, lead researcher team polish scientists worked article, said telephone interview important understand heart symbol polish national identity: “for poles, piece body present still poland special emotional value.”except heart, chopin’s body buried père lachaise cemetery paris.
don’t nudge me: limits behavioral economics medicine whenever talk physicians outcomes worse you’d expect, quick point noncompliance — patient follow course treatment — major problem.sometimes prescriptions aren’t filled. times are, patients don’t take drugs prescribed. lead 100,000 deaths year.a thorough review published new england journal medicine decade ago estimated two-thirds medication-related hospital admissions united states noncompliance, cost $100 billion year. included treatments h.i.v., high blood pressure, mental health childhood illnesses (it difficult get children take medicine, too).to address issue, researchers trying various strategies, including rooted behavioral economics. far, hasn’t much progress. systematic review published five years ago annals internal medicine looked kinds trials tried improve patient compliance. found limited successes improving patient compliance different disorders, trials small easily generalized outside research setting.a recent cochrane review concluded “current methods improving medication adherence chronic health problems mostly complex effective.”at first glance, behavioral economics — basis richard thaler’s recent nobel prize economics — seems like rich field potential solutions. people tend things, like donate organs, it’s default option opposed something need request. tend less likely miss appointments tell many patients show theirs. tend likely engage preventive behaviors like using sunscreen focus benefits, harms. many turning ideas like improve medication adherence.but excited potential behavioral economics keep mind results recent study. pulled stops trying get patients heart attack compliant taking medication. (patients’ adherence time surprisingly low, even though makes big difference outcomes, major problem.)researchers randomly assigned 1,500 people one two groups. recently heart attacks. one group received usual care. received special electronic pill bottles monitored patients’ use medication. patients took drugs entered lottery 20 percent chance receive $5 1 percent chance win $50 every day year.that’s all. lottery group members could also sign friend family member automatically notified didn’t take pills could receive social support. given access special social work resources. even staff engagement adviser whose specific duty providing close monitoring feedback, would remind patients importance adherence.this kitchen-sink approach. involved direct financial incentives, social support nudges, health care system resources significant clinical management. failed.the time first hospitalization cardiovascular problem death two groups. time hospitalization total number hospitalizations same. medical costs. even medication adherence — process measure might influence outcomes — different two groups.the researchers trial deserve praise frank assessment results, well trying brainstorm ways might achieve success future. getting patients change behavior hard. past, we’ve tried making drugs free patients get adhere medications improve outcomes. failed. we’ve tried lotteries (as study above) nudge people achieve better compliance. failed.maybe financial incentives, behavioral economics general, work better public health direct health care. successes, all, respect weight loss — although seemed disappear time. we’ve also seen promise respect smoking cessation, although come caveats well.experts caution interventions achieve success often intensive. demand great deal attention, quite expensive. moreover, focused, usually single issue condition.the problem health many moving parts. health care system even more. trying improve one aspect make others worse. behavioral economics may offer us fascinating theories test controlled trials, long way go assume it’s cure ails americans.
mumps makes comeback, even among vaccinated think you’ve seeing mumps news often past couple years, you’re absolutely right.“mumps outbreaks rise,” said dr. janell routh, pediatrician medical officer mumps team centers disease control prevention. 6,000 cases mumps reported united states last year, highest number 10 years. around 2010, total annual cases hundreds.most recent cases occurred outbreaks, including large one arkansas, rather sporadic here-a-case, there-a-case disease. outbreaks among people 18 22 years old, requisite two doses mumps vaccine childhood. “we seeing young highly vaccinated population,” dr. routh said.in world, date people childhood diseases. i’m young measles, old enough mumps chickenpox. chickenpox remember particularly itchy unpleasant; mumps remember swollen chipmunk cheeks and, tonsillitis, certain amount ice cream make painful swallowing easier.mumps virus causes swelling parotid glands, salivary glands ears, along general symptoms like fever fatigue. mumps vaccine licensed 1967, based jeryl lynn strain mumps, developed dr. maurice hilleman, cultured virus sick daughter.mumps transmitted droplets saliva mucus. spread coughing sneezing, also sharing cups close contact living eating exercising together. many recent outbreaks occurred college dorms among athletic teams, happened syracuse university men’s women’s lacrosse teams last month. “we seeing close-knit communities tend live closely together strong social cultural interactions,” dr. routh said, including religious groups.mumps vaccine combined measles rubella vaccine m.m.r., given ages 1 4. immunity wanes time people, close contact, sufficient exposure sufficient quantities virus overcome vaccines’ protection.dr. patricia quinlisk, medical director state epidemiologist iowa department public health, dealt outbreak university iowa surrounding area 2015 2016 450 cases mumps. students involved childhood m.m.r. shots, said, required university, decision made hold series clinics offering third dose vaccine.in article september new england journal medicine, dr. quinlisk colleagues traced importance waning immunity, effectiveness third m.m.r. shot iowa outbreak.“should situation occur again, would give third dose,” dr. quinlisk said. “in outbreak substantially decrease risk students getting mumps, instrumental stopping outbreak.”other strategies contain outbreak campus included education cough hygiene (for instance, cough arm tissue), working student health services make possible infectious students isolate themselves, arranging miss classes retake tests pressure break isolation, setting food delivery services, providing masks use communal bathrooms.even immunity dwindled, “we know two doses m.m.r. decreases risk serious complications,” dr. routh said. important rationale vaccinating mumps always protect orchitis, inflammation testicles used relatively common post-pubertal males came mumps, affecting 20 30 percent them, sometimes leaving loss testicular tissue, decreased sperm counts concerns future fertility. rate much lower vaccinated young adults.mumps virus also rarely cause inflammation ovaries, even rarely, though dangerously, deafness inflammation brain; again, complications appear even rarer vaccinated, may still occur. even 6,000 cases, hard estimate frequency complication like lasting deafness, used occur one every 20,000 cases.of course, waning immunity problem college well. dr. alan lucerna, program director combined emergency internal medicine rowan school osteopathic medicine new jersey, reported february 2017 case mumps fully immunized adult, article titled “still pain neck time.”“a good number patients come e.r. subsequently diagnosed mumps vaccinated come thinking lymph node swelling,” dr. lucerna said. adults develop swelling angle jaw together flulike symptoms think mumps, said. “we probably underdiagnose it.”should parents worry sending children college two childhood doses mumps vaccine? “no, know two doses vaccine protective,” dr. routh said. current recommendation third dose, safe, warranted people felt high risk public health workers, like iowa students setting outbreak. two childhood doses m.m.r. protect people getting mumps, also, course protect measles, much serious disease, mention rubella.“we’ve heard people say proves vaccine’s working, vaccine probably prevented lot students getting ill,” dr. quinlisk said. immunity wane everyone, many people exposed don’t get sick. “we certainly commend university iowa mandatory vaccine policy kept worse prevented complications.”parents might want keep mind informal survey done iowa vaccine clinics students waiting get third m.m.r.s asked come: motivated posters campus bulletin boards fear complications?“the no. 1 answer far was: mother called told to,” dr. quinlisk said. “so emails went parents significant impact, told college campuses make sure don’t forget keep parents loop.”
unlocking secrets microbiome modern technology making possible medical scientists analyze inhabitants innards people probably would rather know about. resulting information could one day save health even life.i’m referring trillions bacteria, viruses fungi inhabit virtually every body part, including tissues thought sterile. together, make human microbiome represent perhaps promising yet challenging task modern medicine: determining normal microscopic inhabitants every organ knowing restore proper balance organisms disrupted.proof principle, scientists call it, already established sometimes devastating intestinal infection bacterium clostridium difficile. infection, popularly called c. diff, often occurs potent antibiotics wipe normal bacterial inhabitants gut otherwise keep check.when else fails clear recurrent c. diff infection, treatment fecal transplant healthy gut presumed contain bacteria suppress c. diff activity often highly effective, cure rate excess 90 percent.under auspices national institutes health, large team scientists engaged creating “normal” microbiological road map following tissues: gastrointestinal tract, oral cavity, skin, airways, urogenital tract, blood eye. effort, called human microbiome project, takes advantage new technology rapidly analyze large samples genetic material, making possible identify organisms present tissues.depending body site, anywhere 20 percent 60 percent organisms make microbiota cannot cultured identified older, traditional techniques used microbiologists.if institutes’ five-year project succeeds defining changes microbiome associated disease, potential transform medicine, assuming ways found correct microbial distortions affected tissues.here demonstration projects already underway:skin: dr. martin j. blaser, microbiologist director human microbiome program new york university school medicine, directing examination organisms skin 75 people without psoriasis, checking whether agents used treat condition adversely alter microbiome.vagina: jacques ravel university maryland school medicine larry j. forney university idaho studying 200 women determine microbial changes may result common difficult-to-control infection called bacterial vaginosis, afflicts 20 million american women childbearing age.blood: washington university st. louis, dr. gregory a. storch, specialist pediatric infectious disease, colleagues examining role viruses immune system blood respiratory gastrointestinal tracts children develop serious fevers result 20 million visits year hospital emergency rooms.gastrointestinal tract: claire m. fraser-liggett, microbiologist, dr. alan r. shuldiner, geneticist, university maryland school medicine, exploring microbiome affects body’s use energy development obesity.previous studies already found differences gut microbiota lean obese adults. also evidence typical high-calorie american diet rich sugar, meats processed foods may adversely affect balance microbes gut foster extraction absorption excess calories food.a diet heavily based plants — is, fruits vegetables — may result microbiome containing wider range healthful organisms. studies, mice microbiota preconditioned typical american diet respond healthfully plant-based diet.compared lean mice, obese mice 50 percent reduction organisms called bacteroidetes proportional increase firmicutes, lean mice get fat given fecal transplants obese mice. similar shift observed people, distorted ratio organisms shown reverse people lose weight following bariatric surgery.there also evidence microbes residing gut affect distant sites influence person’s immune responses. indirect action suggested possible mechanism behind rheumatoid arthritis. mice, certain bacteria gut shown foster production antibodies attack joints, resulting joint destruction typical rheumatoid arthritis.similarly, studies suggested role gut microbiota risk developing neuropsychiatric illnesses like schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism even chronic fatigue syndrome. researchers suggested genetically susceptible people, altered microbes gut may disrupt blood-brain barrier, leading production antibodies adversely affect normal brain development.among challenges elucidating microbiome’s role health disease determining whether changes found microorganisms inhabiting various organs cause effect. already known microbiota people various health problems based observation, making difficult say came first: disease disrupted microbiota.animal studies like mentioned clue proof similar effect people. therapeutic studies underway completed, people conditions thought influenced microbiome choice currently rely possible treatments suggested animal research preliminary human studies.for example, people irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease, allergic disorders infections drug-resistant organisms may benefit taking probiotics, though probiotics sold health food drugstores may ineffective. may necessary tailor-make remedy condition even patient.meanwhile, people interested fostering health-promoting array gut microorganisms consider shifting diet heavily based meats, carbohydrates processed foods one emphasizes plants. dr. jeffrey gordon, genomics specialist washington university school medicine, told times last year, “the nutritional value food influenced part microbial community encounters food.”
gymnast aly raisman says molested team doctor american gymnast aly raisman said sexually abused team doctor facing criminal charges molesting gymnasts.ms. raisman, 23, made revelation interview “60 minutes,” excerpts released friday, book, “fierce,” released next week.“i angry,” said. “i’m really upset care lot, see young girls come me, ask pictures autographs, whatever is, every time look them, every time see smiling, think want create change never, ever go this.”ms. raisman captain teams gold medals united states 2012 london 2016 rio olympics. another member 2012 team, mckayla maroney, said last month doctor, lawrence g. nassar, began molesting age 13. jamie dantzscher, 2000 olympian, among gymnasts accused dr. nassar.dr. nassar jail michigan, facing 22 counts first-degree criminal sexual conduct involving least seven victims. “this guy monster,” bill schuette, attorney general michigan, said february.dr. nassar, pleaded guilty possession child pornography, awaiting trial criminal sexual conduct charges, sued 100 women accusing sexual abuse. pleaded guilty assault charges.although charges relate seven gymnasts, lawyers say dozens accusers come forward.dr. nassar denied accusations past. lawyer represented him, matt newburg, said friday comment.“why looking didn’t girls speak up?” ms. raisman told “60 minutes.” “why look at, culture? usa gymnastics do, larry nassar do, manipulate girls much afraid speak up?”in statement, usa gymnastics said adopted new policy requires reporting suspicions sexual abuse. “we want work aly interested athletes keep athletes safe,” said. “we appalled conduct larry nassar accused, sorry athlete harmed gymnastics career.”the interview air full sunday cbs.in addition team gold medals, ms. raisman 2012 gold medal floor exercise, well two individual silver medals one bronze olympics career. also four world championships medals numerous national titles.though oldest gymnast 2012 2016 teams, spoken continuing career going 2020 games.
canadian filmmakers get view north korea hockey vancouver, british columbia — dated majestic pyongyang ice rink adorned timeless symbols country isolation.in arena’s upper bowl, portraits north korea’s past leaders, kim il-sung kim jong-il, hang like championship banners.on ice below, national men’s hockey team often simulates five-on-four penalty killing drill introduced north koreans soviets several decades ago.over past year, five canadian filmmakers often rink team, sometimes even ice. documenting slap shots post-practice speeches, also trying peel back layers long-existing hockey subculture one world’s mysterious nations.why pads equipment old? repeatedly run predictable plays? players come from?“all questions i’m sure lot people north korea hockey there, first went,” said nigel edwards, 27, director coming documentary “closing gap.”the opportunity get answers questions raised even more. film crew vancouver, british columbia, acquire unparalleled access shadow north korean sports teams?matt reichel, one film’s producers, worked lived asia past decade. 2009 graduate brown university’s international relations east asian studies program, reichel started nonprofit digital marketing ventures living overseas, building connections process.he estimated north korea 60 times. one visits, discovered north korea pastime common home country.“i saw hockey tournament one year around time kim jong-il’s birthday, decided go check out,” said.back vancouver, hometown, reichel teamed edwards, former television production assistant.“we wanted use media arts way look something north korean society that’s political,” reichel, 30, said. “we focused tiny slice north korean society wanted see learn earnest, honest way.”it took two years leveraging reichel’s contacts forming new ones ministry sports korean ice hockey association, league seven clubs, filmmakers get permission project.in november 2016, production crew went first three trips pyongyang, north korean capital, shadow men’s national team professional team, taesongsan winter sports club. reichel sunny hahm, associate producer, translator seoul native, provided insight north korean culture new visitors.“they told us first time go you’re stranger, second time you’re friend, third time family,” edwards said.to break ice athletes first days filming, crew played canadian card.“i think hockey standpoint, interested us canadians,” edwards said. “i think little disappointed entire production team couldn’t skate.”but hahm, competitive recreation hockey player, could skate critical building rapport. aside able speak korean, often practiced taesongsan team, making suggestions coach players.in game crew’s first trip, taesongsan coach presented hahm jersey offer sit team game, though hahm play korean ice hockey association rules.for rest crew, trust relationships built consistency gestures. edwards made point learning player’s name; turn remembered his. shooting interviews, members crew cognizant subjects’ skepticism.“we spent lots conversations sort talking about, frame questions?” edwards said. “how try show prove mean well we’re going like rip show bad light?”every morning breakfast, crew made five-minute trek downtown hotel arena.many competitors ice sports like speed skating, figure skating hockey arena given day. schedule planned minute, edwards said.sharing facility efficient, conducive ideal hockey practice. ice worn overuse, divots courtesy figure skaters visible throughout rink. glass scratched, boards lack compression.the hockey play also behind times.“it conservative, traditional style play,” hahm, 29, said. “you tell sense real lack creativity comes formulating plays.”according filmmakers, north korean teams still abide training materials methodologies passed soviet union 1950s. south korea’s hockey program evolved recent years, qualifying 2018 winter olympics host country, north korea’s remained stagnant. lack outside exposure information sharing — televised n.h.l. games, foreign-exchange skills clinics access internet — significantly impeded progress.“the vast majority team comes countryside, recruited kids 12, 13 years old, based athletic talent small villages towns,” reichel said.most team’s equipment used donated international ice hockey federation, based zurich. film crew tried help, contributing tape new composite graphite hockey sticks.“we wanted feel equal levels playing,” hahm said.what north korean players lack knowledge, gear size (no one national team six feet tall), try make discipline heart.“you must rise higher faster running, opposite player flying, order catch them, need train harder,” hong chun-rim, star forward, said interpreter “closing gap.”the filmmakers shadowed taesongsan team 11 days first trip november. returned film last spring three weeks, focused 20-man national team, training competing i.i.h.f. world championship auckland, new zealand.a division ii team international competition, north korea pool also included china, israel mexico.hong, fastest skilled player team, scored hat trick north korea’s victory auckland — 11-3 win turkey. team sustained several injuries, mainly intense play bigger stronger opponents.the yearly change scenery international tournaments provides opportunity players explore things cannot find pyongyang.“when new zealand, group would always looking youtube videos lobby,” edwards said. “they aware n.h.l. big players. so, travel abroad, always learn more.”in december, crew make one last trip pyongyang conclude filming. filmmakers seeking distributor hope show documentary top film festivals next year.“we said story going real interesting tile,” reichel said, “as north korea giant mosaic there’s different components north korean society is.”he added expect recent rising tensions north korea united states much impact players’ day-to-day lives.“they seeking seek, self-worth,” edwards said. “they looking place prove themselves, that, them, winning gold international stage. even though, realistic that?“but keep pushing forever, job.”
table, brain appeared normal boston — brain arrived april, delivered basement hospital without ceremony, like others. differences one — important, notorious.it went lab outside city, instead one boston, examinations performed days, less likely attract attention way. instead carried service entrance, ushered secretly underground tunnel system. brain given pseudonym, three people knew identify it.other that, brain came alone disconnected past, unattached celebrity. sordid details man’s rise fall, speculation went wrong, debate justice — left behind others assess.it brain, large small, deformed extraordinary appearance, oblong gelatinous coil weighing 1,573 grams, three half pounds, carved skull 27-year-old man. coroner took special care, arrived hours later near-perfect condition.“they handled everything beautifully,” neuropathologist said.the laboratory 30-minute drive prison man hanged night two earlier. name familiar scientists, people throughout new england many around country. brain 30 miles north man recently worked, foxborough, mass.they expected normal brain man’s age.“i didn’t equate behavior disease,” neuropathologist said. “i thought that’s was.”on table, brain appeared healthy. meninges, layers translucent membranes coat protect brain, still enveloped it. brain healthy sheen.the brain sliced sheaths, maybe half-inch time, starting front. first inkling came another 27-year-old brain. even naked eye, cross sections substantial gaps tissues — fluid-filled ventricles expanded brain tissue shrank. cross section healthy 27-year-old brain looks robust, fleshy. one hollowed boomerang-shaped caverns.“the reason skull grows make room growing brain,” neuropathologist explained. “everything packed really tightly. nature doesn’t leave gaps.”the septum pellucidum, small membrane two halves brain, atrophied point looked withered fragile, even perforated. neuropathologist later went look others similar condition, youngest comparable example 46-year-old boxer.the fornix, c-shaped bundle nerves, similarly deteriorated, stripped relative heft. hippocampus, too. even famously diseased brains neuropathologist explored, men died decades later, obvious signs destruction examined naked eye.but microscope could disease diagnosed certainty. wafer-like tissues immunostained, using antibodies designed discolor specific protein — case, tau, clumps spreads, killing brain cells. full scope damage apparent.tau, stained brown, appeared like bursts fireworks frontal cortex, part brain controls decision making, impulse inhibition. neuropathologist could see spreading brain. amygdala, part brain regulates emotions like fear anxiety, temporal lobe. spotted “a perfect demonstration” lesions around tiny blood vessels, telltale sign. found previous microhemorrhages astrocytic scarring around ventricles.she declared case stage 3 scale severity, goes 1 4. damage seen anyone age. among hundreds brains examined graded, median age stage 3 brain profession 67. one 27.what made brain extraordinary, purpose science, extent damage, singular cause. brains kind damage sustained lifetime problems, too, strokes diseases, like alzheimer’s. samples muddled, everything found connected one particular disease.this one looked lifted pages textbook devoted one disease.“it’s rare us get brain person young good shape,” neuropathologist said. “it classic case. tells us lot disease.”the brain longer brain, function form, sliced pieces. pieces numbered, archived stored. scientists still study it, probably years, perfect, fascinating specimen.the neuropathologist closest associates kept months, though, man’s family agreed let results go public. september, news came headlines returned, neuropathologist interviews. released short statement confirming results examination.“i didn’t want contribute sensationalism,” said.but science cannot advance without cumulative power research, university ballroom thursday, front 150 neurologists, pathologists scientists.she stood dark put powerpoint presentation screen, several dozen slides images showing immensely atrophied young brain, mind former star field also convicted murderer.“he beautiful pathology, call beautiful,” neuropathologist said earlier.the particulars damage neuropathologist detailed — tangled tau proteins, battered frontal cortex, shrunken tissues enlarged ventricles — long become familiar paying attention brain science. things threaten long-term future industry man worked.this job faces scrutiny — microscope darkened labs scientific presentations academic conferences.“it’s scientifically interesting,” neuropathologist said. “to me, it’s fascinating brain.”
shohei otani, two-way player, says ready leave japan m.l.b. osaka, japan — shohei otani, accomplished young pitcher outfielder japan’s top league, announced saturday wanted move major league baseball next season.“the day met team officials stated intentions,” otani said news conference. “my request met warm words support, hope best america next year on.”otani’s japanese club, nippon ham fighters, said friday would allow otani use posting system off-season, clearing way sign major league team next season.otani, 23, named valuable player pacific league 2016, 3-2 3.20 earned run average year. despite thigh ankle injuries, batted .332 65 games 16 doubles, eight home runs 31 runs batted in. ankle surgery last month.he 42-15 record 2.52 e.r.a. 624 strikeouts 543 innings five seasons, .286 batting average 48 homers 166 runs batted in.because otani less nine years service time, nippon ham retains rights, must go posting system leave.if m.l.b., mlb players association nippon professional baseball agree deal would extend expired posting agreement off-season, team signs otani would pay fighters $20 million. m.l.b.’s labor contract, signing bonus would restricted, remaining pool money limited $3,535,000.under baseball’s new collective bargaining agreement, 23-year-old otani agree minor league contract subject signing bonus pools. added big league roster, would salary minimum $545,000 next season would eligible salary arbitration 2020 earliest.if otani waited turned 25 enter m.l.b., would restrictions could expect better deal. otani said wanted go rather wait.“i complete player yet, want go environment continue get better,” said. “i felt way graduated high school. strongest reason wanting go now.”otani considered going straight m.l.b. high school persuaded sign fighters, assured could play outfield well pitch.he said news conference hoped continue batting pitching.“just turned professional, didn’t imagine would able both,” otani said. “but since then, fans encouraged it.” added manager hideki kuriyama coaches helped make dual role possible. “that left strong desire keep it,” said, “not me, them.”“i don’t know possible,” continued, “but want hear teams say kind situations might available. process started, can’t say might work out.”
yuzuru hanyu withdraws key skating event injury osaka, japan — yuzuru hanyu’s name called practice friday morning, music, chopin’s ballade no. 1, began playing public address system. one problem. hanyu, japan, reigning men’s olympic figure skating champion sport’s biggest star, nowhere seen.on thursday training, hanyu sustained ligament damage right ankle awkward landing four-revolution jump. friday night, scheduled compete important pre-olympic competition, nhk trophy. little seems happen without drama sense crisis figure skating.word spread early friday hanyu, 22, would try practice morning. ankle felt stable, would compete evening. fans, follow obsessively, began gather hours ahead short program. ina oprisi, manager medical equipment company, traveled way romania, even ticket exhibition performance sunday.“i’m checking watch every five minutes” updates hanyu’s condition, said.japanese reporters photographers staked entrances osaka municipal central gymnasium. waiting futile. hanyu show up. receiving medical treatment, japanese skating federation said. still hoped compete evening. anticipation reached fever pitch.and answer came: hanyu withdrawn. details given severity ligament damage, occurred hanyu essentially split trying land quad lutz. later afternoon, hanyu issued statement, saying, “i sorry everyone worried.”his doctors decided participate, wrote. would aim japanese national championships, held christmas. even compete then, japanese reporters said, skating federation’s rules contain exception would permit hanyu compete 2018 winter games february pyeongchang, south korea.hanyu fierce competitor, wide belief make every effort become first male skater repeat olympic champion since dick button united states 1952.some observers believe injury might actually benefit way, dissuading hanyu compulsively trying six seven quad jumps games, completeness skater could bring second gold medal only, say, three four.still, hanyu recovers time olympics, first international competition three months. meanwhile, younger challengers like nathan chen united states shoma uno japan — magnificent jumpers — chance try gain edge conditioning performance.other skaters coaches wished hanyu speedy recovery friday. sport consider greatest skater ever, one whose presence inspires others elevate performances.“we hope healthy enough compete,” said chen’s coach, rafael arutyunyan. “he gives much spirit competition.”asked whether chen uno might possible edge olympics, arutyunyan said: “we’re talking advantage. competition always good everybody participates.”
secret roger federer’s success man pierre paganini took part track field youth, first decided become coach interested working soccer stars.but tennis, sport never played regularly, made indelible mark key man shadows roger federer stan wawrinka.if continued win big 30s, great deal paganini, 60-year-old swiss fitness coach takes cerebral approach working sweat.“a big part reason i’m today definitely pierre,” federer told recent interview.where federer finds back london atp finals, tour championship reserved world’s top eight players.federer, 36, far oldest man field round-robin group alexander zverev, marin cilic jack sock, face federer opening singles match sunday. federer prestigious event record six times understandable favorite win again.though skipped entire clay-court season preserve body spark, swept nearly else him, winning seven titles, including australian open wimbledon, losing four matches year.back no. 2 rankings behind rafael nadal, federer’s winning percentage 92 percent best since 2006, went 92-5, winning 95 percent singles matches (a season, noted, play clay).paganini worked federer 17 years, longer member federer’s current team. even surprised man’s 2017?“yes, totally, completely,” paganini said tuesday telephone french. “you honest. it’s majestic, fantastic year. it’s possible normally.”paganini, work federer tour switzerland dubai, seen two federer’s 19 grand slam tournament victories person. 2009, federer’s box first french open. year, wimbledon.paganini said much moment watched federer defeat emotional cilic grass england club, paganini caught flight back switzerland, said images kept surfacing brain work federer done camera get back astonishing level.one powerful images february 2016, federer still recovering surgery repair torn meniscus left knee, first surgery life.“rog worked physical therapist two weeks started fitness training, beginning to, example, jog five meters walk backwards,” paganini said. “it like learning walk again. positive person world still moments wonder, really going able play high-level tennis again?”the answer resounding yes, although required another six-month break competition end 2016. question long federer, oldest men’s singles champion wimbledon open era, might able sustain continues cherry-picking spots staying fresh head legs.five years ago, asked paganini federer, 31, could play 2016. said saw reason doubt based federer’s playing style, talents enduring enthusiasm.how 2020?“i think rog know it’s moment he’ll want say perhaps enough,” paganini said. “rog biological age 36 me, athletic age younger yet maturity someone well 40. it’s quite balance. it’s difficult say predict. it’s man makes decision, athlete, unless there’s serious injury leaves choice.”the two met federer 14 new arrival swiss national training center ecublens near lausanne. federer, youngest boarder there, still working talent temper. eventually put together team 2000, asked paganini join him.“he’s made fitness workouts enjoyable, ever be,” federer said. “i follow beat. whatever tells i’ll trust him. people ask me, still physical tests stuff? don’t tests work pierre knows sees i’m moving well not; i’m slow fast; things. he’s huge part success, i’m happy called way back when.”paganini said methods training federer changed years. used play sports like basketball federer’s youth add variety focus activities directly correspond tennis and, according paganini, emphasize complex drills mimic multipronged challenges sport.“you strong, fast, coordinated endurance tennis drills that,” paganini said. “but also never forget use tennis court; road pool. always create link speed athletic way it’s used court. nine times 10 court, speed first three steps you’re playing tennis ball. train particularly strong first three steps.”paganini said truly believes federer lost step acknowledging full transparency goal. “if anything diminished, it’s opponents figure out,” said chuckle.“when judge speed tennis, judge differently judge 100-meter runner,” paganini said. “you judge great deal reaction time well speed coordinated. it’s important move fast. move right, nature sport, move fast right long time match. rog proved like others it’s possible past 30. think forget discipline many, many years. life philosophy revolve around tennis.”paganini’s enthusiasm remains intact, too, another comeback manage. wawrinka, 32, since july left knee surgery own. though still ranked seventh technically qualified atp finals, unable take part returned practice geneva first time since operation tuesday. paganini him.“we always benefit experience plan stan, it’s useful gone rog,” paganini said. “what comparable duration. rog stopped july 2016 started january. stan stopped july 2017 goal start january 2018.”it short-term project paganini prize pupils focused long term. “rog always, even age 20, interested could long career,” paganini said.that meant overplaying, building breaks season listening intently body’s signals. meant reducing, marginally, number training sessions years. paganini hopes younger set, #nextgen will, taking notes.“i think manage motivate young ones give time bodies recover training playing give time bodies recover playing training, simple message help us fewer injuries future,” paganini said.but planning next generation’s fitness trainer.“at age, i’m looking next season that,” said. “i cannot plan long term career stage. now, pleasure every day cross paths rog stan. that’s essence, that’s enough.”
knicks roll kings porzingis returns scores 34 kristaps porzingis returned one-game absence score 34 points lead knicks visiting sacramento kings, 118-91, saturday night.courtney lee added 20 points, enes kanter 17 points 13 rebounds knicks, four straight madison square garden. led many 33 points fourth quarter.skal labissiere scored 19 points buddy hield 17 kings.porzingis missed wednesday night’s road loss orlando ankle elbow injuries.the kings got within one point three occasions second quarter, last time 6 minutes 54 seconds remaining, hield’s jumper made score 43-42. knicks took 21-7 run, capped four straight points porzingis, led 64-49 halftime.porzingis, 22, entered game n.b.a.’s second-leading scorer, went 11 21 field, including 3 4 3-point range. strung together six straight points put knicks ahead 74-53 8:38 left third quarter fans serenaded “m.v.p.” chants.he went bench good knicks leading, 88-60, late third.the knicks started slowly, missing five straight shots turning ball twice kings jumped 10-0 lead.the knicks closed opening period 32-13 run, highlighted 16 points porzingis.
needs advice, philadelphia flyer turns brother dancer first time young n.h.l. career, taylor leier made philadelphia flyers’ opening-night roster. parents, tim cindy, shared triumph making trip saskatoon, saskatchewan, watch play early-season games anaheim los angeles last month.leier’s brother, keaton, could make trip southern california. instead enjoying career milestone own. first-year company dancer atlanta ballet, keaton leier, 21, already training 10 hours day, five days week, month time older brother reported flyers’ training camp september. keaton’s training regimen impresses hockey-playing brother, selected philadelphia fourth round 2012 draft.“you see him: splits wall,” taylor leier, 23, said. “that’s strong lower body.”after performed second company houston ballet last year, keaton leier’s move atlanta major promotion. months training leading company’s first performance december gone unnoticed taylor, hoping breakout season n.h.l.“their schedule pretty grueling,” said taylor leier, played 16 n.h.l. games entering season. “they train hard respect lot hard work. they’re going whole day.”playing hockey natural pursuit elder leier brother growing saskatchewan surrounded family members involved sport. tim leier coached taylor’s youth team numerous uncles cousins also played hockey. keaton leier’s decision child pursue hockey departure — even dedicated ballet.“from really young age, always kind mind-set thing even though everybody else really hockey,” said. “my family especially hockey heavy. ever since little, especially younger, dad really encouraged play. liked it, never really loved it. influenced wanted.”taylor’s hockey keaton’s dancing made hectic home life, endless effort deliver two boys games, tournaments, practices recitals. one particularly hectic day, cindy leier said attended dance competition keaton edmonton, alberta, rush back home saskatoon, drive 300 miles, attend taylor’s hockey awards banquet.during long drive home, received word keaton received competition’s top accolade, honor included trip los angeles dance studio.“honestly, look back life sometimes feels like blur,” cindy leier said. “it goes fast busy time.”despite divergent paths, brothers remained close. taylor left home 17 play junior hockey portland winterhawks oregon, unknowingly establishing precedent brother, 17 left home train royal winnipeg ballet school.the parallels brothers’ endeavors quickly appreciated mother.“they experience emotions: mental challenge also physical challenge,” said. “sometimes mental challenge i’ll say keaton: ‘why don’t call brother? he’s this. even though he’s something completely opposite you’re doing, he’ll understand you’re going right now.’ helpful keaton.”those conversations proved invaluable brothers whenever encountered inevitable career disappointments, whether assigned flyers’ minor league affiliate relegated second company houston ballet. benefits brother highest level chosen field end there.the brothers also occasionally work together, although areas concentration gym often contrast drastically. taylor encounters occasional tweaks pulls come course lengthy hockey season, helps brother capable resting legs 180-degree angle.“i know sometimes he’ll text say: ‘my hip really bothering me. know stretches exercises use fix it?’ usually give sort help,” keaton said. “sometimes works, sometimes doesn’t.”with parents looking forward next opportunity watch taylor play flyers, keaton busy earmarking dates go philadelphia watch older brother play. easy. arduous schedule atlanta ballet continue december, company begins performing “the nutcracker.”afforded holiday break n.h.l. schedule, taylor parents watch brother perform.“we’ve working we’ve grinding,” said. “our family lot versatility parents get experience two different professions, pretty cool.”
rangers beat edmonton 6th straight win rangers, become hottest team n.h.l. awful start season, used man advantage help season-high sixth straight win saturday.the rangers scored two power-play goals second period en route 4-2 victory edmonton oilers — fifth consecutive win madison square garden.“they penalty kill struggling,” said rangers’ kevin shattenkirk, extended point streak seven games. “we tried expose best way could. worked get spots open made good plays.”rick nash scored twice, mats zuccarello picked two assists, pavel buchnevich goal rangers. henrik lundqvist made 26 saves, fourth consecutive game, ryan mcdonagh registered assist.jesse puljujarvi connor mcdavid scored oilers, fell rangers fourth straight time.nash scored turned game winner defenseman brady skjei found darting toward back post 18 minutes 53 seconds second period. mcdonagh also assisted play.“we kind talked play game, knew there’s going chance would open,” nash said power-play goal oilers goaltender cam talbot. “brady talked it, made great pass. try build wall skates sticks, hope hits something. get goalie like cam, know pretty well. challenges hard. leaves backdoor play open.”the rangers jumped front, 1-0, nash kevin hayes completed odd-man rush 12:16 first period. zuccarello also assisted play.“i look see stick defenseman has. it’s lefty lefty, wait move stick,” hayes said two-on-one opportunity. “you got wait goalie, make decision there.”puljujarvi, playing first game season since called friday a.h.l., tied game wrist shot 16:26 first period. skjei buchnevich difficulty clearing puck defensive zone, eventually ryan nugent-hopkins controlled it. delivered soft backhanded pass puljujarvi wrist shot. darnell nurse also assisted play.mcdavid added power-play goal middle period, extending point streak three games.“they able get two quick ones power play,” oilers coach todd mclellan said. “they good job neutral zone clogging things it’s hard come back them.”buchnevich scored third time three games shattenkirk delivered cross-ice pass set one-timer 15:10 second period. since oct. 26, buchnevich n.h.l. goals, seven.michael grabner added empty-net goal 1.4 seconds remaining.talbot made 30 saves edmonton.the rangers, disappointing 3-7-2 start season, look third-period rally oct. 31 expansion vegas golden knights turning point season. rangers trailed, 4-2, end second period scored four unanswered goals begin winning streak.“the things want stayed same,” rangers coach alain vigneault said. “there’s doubt we’re executing better. execution, doesn’t lead costly mistakes, we’ve able build last games play, part, pretty good hockey.”there scary moment 3:24 second period, edmonton’s zack kassian rangers’ jimmy vesey got tangled up. fell ground, kassian’s skate clipped vesey mouth. vesey returned full cage start third period.
indoors, greatest men’s tennis player? indoor tennis might seem modern invention, way keep raking revenue weather turns chilly. ancestor today’s game actually played exclusively indoors.known real tennis, diversion royalty minions france, england elsewhere renaissance beyond. fewer 50 asymmetric courts sloping internal roofs still exist.it tough know truly best days: presumably, let kings rule. shortage evidence digital age, world’s prestigious indoor men’s tournament, atp finals, set begin sunday london’s o2 arena, worth ponder.who greatest time indoors? let’s call goati, sounds vaguely swiss thus brings mind roger federer, bad candidate turns out.federer, no. 2 triumphant season, singles title year-end championships record six times, although last four played indoors. first two outdoor courts 2003 2004 houston, event wooed briefly away shanghai.but year-end championship back cover since 2005.federer, best able express manifold gifts faster surfaces, nonetheless eclipsed o2 arena novak djokovic, four straight titles 2012 2015, beating federer two finals straight sets.djokovic underrated player indoors underrated player hard courts, indoor surface choice. even djokovic leads federer, 5-4, indoor matches, federer still holds overall edge. career indoor record 269-64 winning percentage 80.8 superior djokovic, 135-37 (78.5 percent).andy murray, born week djokovic, exactly career indoor record 135-37 separating next week.neither qualified large part neither played official match since wimbledon, although murray least played lost exhibition federer scotland tuesday (djokovic still returned full-blown practice).those career records quite complete, however, include indoor matches played grand slam tournaments. slams, except french open, stadiums retractable roofs closed inclement weather.but without grand slam factor, career indoor records era quite match best players earlier open era like john mcenroe ivan lendl. played often indoors then. 19 indoor events first year atp tour 1990. 15 year. consider jimmy connors 53 career indoor titles mcenroe 52. federer 23, djokovic 12.the playing conditions also generally much quicker.“indoor tennis totally different,” said brad gilbert, coach espn analyst whose playing career lasted 1982 1995. “i think slower indoor courts today give everybody chance. playing mac lendl carpet supreme, good night irene. courts really favor dominant shot also needed able return guys like mac lendl served really well put returns play deadly.”federer, precise serve knack blocking huge serves back play, presumably would health hazard era, too.lendl 341-70: winning percentage 83, ranks second open era indoors. mcenroe 419-72: winning percentage 85.3, ranks first significant margin, five wct finals, prestigious culmination wct circuit, rival traditional tour.the men open era winning percentage 80 percent indoors singles connors 82 percent (469-103), federer bjorn borg 80.6 percent (216-52).boris becker, tremendous indoor player, next close 79.8 percent (297-75). pete sampras, whose five-set victory becker hanover, germany, 1996 atp final best indoor match correspondent seen person. sampras 213-61 (77.7 percent) five year-end championships.as goat debate, easier compare contrast indoor play open era, major events open instead amateurs. turned professional 1968 ample opportunity play indoors. barnstormed, often played new city night, traveling canvas court could rolled rolled moved next venue.“they could put wood cement, even put ice times,” rod laver said interview. “in madison square garden, hockey season on, they’d roll day before, ankles pretty much frozen time came court.”they played surfaces, too, including polished gymnasium floors (talk quick).“jack kramer quick courts indoors best pre-open era players view,” said steve flink, tennis historian author “the greatest tennis matches time”. “from time kramer turned pro end ’47, dominated bobby riggs, pancho gonzales, frank sedgman pro rivals head-to-head tours. gonzales also list. like jack, all-out serve-and-volleyer excelled roof.”serve-and-volley longer rules. neither french kings, indoor tennis excellence survives. tune london proof.
oddities, good bad, abound next gen atp finals next gen atp finals tournament milan week delivered promise different tennis usual. whether better worse still debate.the event, created year showcase young talent men’s tennis, featured seven players born 1996 later earned ranking points season one italian wild card age range. lucrative exhibition. ranking points awarded, players receive $50,000 participating. undefeated champion would earn $390,000.eligible players quickly bought concept announced, many contenders closely tracking standings week week. best young player lured away success. third-ranked alexander zverev, 20, twice champion masters level year, withdrew event focus atp finals, begin sunday london.his withdrawal left andrey rublev russia highest-ranked player field no. 37. rublev play no. 54 hyeon chung south korea, undefeated far, final saturday.the lack star power mar event much draw ceremony did.instead drawing chips bowl, organizers instructed young players select model would reveal letter, b, body determine player’s group.the first model selected hiked dress pulled garter reveal letter a. another instructed player remove glove teeth.the tennis world quickly expressed disapproval crass sexualization event. hall famer amélie mauresmo called “disgrace,” french player alizé cornet mocked regressive start showcase innovations.“good job atpworldtour,” cornet wrote twitter. “supposed futurist event right? #backtozero.”the draw ceremony co-produced atp sponsor, red bull. issued joint apology monday.“the intention integrate milan’s rich heritage one fashion capitals world,” statement said. “however, execution proceedings poor taste unacceptable. deeply regret ensure repeat anything like future.”the tour expected strong reactions event’s rules changes, opening ceremony.the young players tested numerous innovations discussed tennis. ideas tried before, since creation world teamtennis 1970s many new concepts used once.the popular automated line calling. instead relying human line judges whose calls challenged reviewed hawk-eye technology, event puts calls hawk-eye’s hands directly. soon ball lands out, immediate audio recording “out!” played, word flashes screens around court. little arguing second-guessing calls.besides line judges, also fewer lines: singles-only tournament, court painted without doubles alleys, standard feature courts world.the scoring system perhaps sharpest deviation. instead playing best-of-three sets, takes six games win set sets must two games, matches milan best-of-five sets, sets shorter. sets played four games, tiebreaker played 3-3. game no-ad scoring, meaning 40-40 next point decides game.the points also different: let call serves, several players said hard get used to.though changes designed create momentum swings match, many sets uncompetitive. far, 24 57 total sets (42.1 percent) scores 4-0 4-1. tiebreakers remain normal length, feel laborious compared quick pace abbreviated set.several changes instituted expedite play: points, 25-second clock; players limited one medical timeout per match; warm-ups shorter, play beginning five minutes players walk onto court.“it’s reducing time — product boring six hours boring six minutes,” chris kermode, executive chairman president atp, told reporters milan. “it’s taking away dead time, making points matter.”the pauses remain match layered entertainment. sets, players talk coaches headsets (but english, conversations broadcast). on-court coaching feature wta matches since 2009, headset version seems advantages: audio clearer, especially player’s side, keeping coach stands maintains tennis’s appearance one-on-one sport.on thursday, headset provided denis shapovalov canada opportunity gush coach, martin laurendeau, much enjoys coffee milan.“dude, i’m telling you: best coffee i’ve ever life,” said.some innovations may come official events soon. no-ad scoring often used doubles mixed doubles. united states open experimented 25-second clock points coaching stands events year.“the big changes — best-of-five, first-to-four, going happen next five years?” kermode said. “no chance, opinion. happen 10 years? yeah, think could.”
coco vandeweghe leads u.s. team fed cup final coco vandeweghe turned tennis, team sports way life. playing basketball could ride bike, listened stories mother, tauna, playing volleyball swimming two united states olympic teams.vandeweghe, 25, played backyard football whole family southern california, learning hard way one throw quickly risk getting tackled.while homework, grandfather ernie, guard knicks 1949-56, would suddenly sneakily throw things her, ensuring always toes.her uncle kiki, two-time n.b.a. all-star went coach league executive, taught rely teammates. uncle bruk medal beach volleyball goodwill games, aunt heather captain american women’s polo team also attended stanford tennis scholarship.“i’m used team atmosphere,” said vandeweghe, followed older brother, beau, tennis courts. “even individual sport like tennis, takes team get every day.”vandeweghe speaking minsk, belarus, american teammates sloane stephens, shelby rogers alison riske take belarusians final fed cup weekend. first fed cup final united states since loss italy 2010.the united states 17 titles, team, since competition began 1963, fed cup since monica seles, lindsay davenport, jennifer capriati lisa raymond beat spain 2000, vandeweghe 8.the americans, toppled three-time defending champion czech republic, 3-2, semifinals, heavily favored belarusian team player ranked top 75. two-time australian open champion victoria azarenka home california unable travel custody battle 11-month-old son, belarus counting no. 78 aryna sabalenka no. 87 aliaksandra sasnovich.sabalenka, 19, admirable autumn, reaching semifinals tashkent, uzbekistan, september losing maria sharapova final tianjin open last month. sasnovich lost match fed cup year, leading belarus upset victories netherlands switzerland en route final. sabalenka sasnovich minsk team playing third consecutive tie full highly partisan arena.“believe me, underestimating team,” said first-year american fed cup captain kathy rinaldi, who, along raymond, coach, prepared squad deafening, boisterous fan behavior. “these girls extremely talented moving rankings quickly. they’re fearless.”the task choosing team fall easily rinaldi’s shoulders. serena williams maternity leave; venus williams opted play fed cup year; stephens madison keys injured earlier season. rinaldi relied vandeweghe, riske, rogers, lauren davis bethanie mattek-sands get past germany czech republic.citing continuing wrist problems, keys withdrew tournaments reached united states open final. mattek-sands, deciding doubles match czechs vandeweghe april, still recovering ruptured patella tendon sustained wimbledon july. planned cheer team belarus recently varicose vein surgery prevented flying.“i still feel much part team,” mattek-sands said home scottsdale, ariz. “i’ll cheering wildly here.”stephens, surprise winner united states open september, making first fed cup appearance year missing 11 months august 2016 june surgery left foot. match since defeated keys united states open final.stephens, played three tournaments since open, said life “isn’t really much different” since claimed first grand slam title.“i haven’t purchased anything, haven’t gone anywhere,” added. “nothing life changed. still look same.”her ranking least changed, rising no. 83 open no. 13. vandeweghe began season no. 37 ended top 10 first time. despite losing first match eight 18 tournaments played year, notoriously feisty vandeweghe reached semifinals australian open, beating top-seeded angelique kerber garbiñe muguruza, united states open, upset then-no. 1 karolina pliskova. vandeweghe also advanced quarterfinals wimbledon.“coco really stepped year,” rinaldi said. “she’s consistent she’s learning patterns game. she’s got big personality she’s passionate tennis. lives team moments like this.”raymond also credited rinaldi uniting young women providing energy, enthusiasm bonding experiences like game nights trips play laser tag escape room.vandeweghe stephens, however, admitted weary long wta tour season.“the fall really difficult me,” vandeweghe said. “it’s hard find motivation u.s. open it’s big tournament american players.”this weekend, however, needs motivation bringing fed cup home.
james harden beats lebron james equaling michael jordan james harden always seems extra motivation faces lebron james, thursday night helped houston rockets beat james cleveland cavaliers, 117-113, reached statistical achievement accomplished one player last 30 years: michael jordan.harden’s final line night included 35 points, 13 assists, 11 rebounds 5 steals. last player match line least35-10-10-5 game jordan, win los angeles clippers january 1989. game, jordan 41 points, 11 assists, 10 rebounds 6 steals.assists steals official statistics since 1983-84 season, going back far adds two players accomplished feat: terry cummings milwaukee bucks january 1987 micheal ray richardson nets october 1985. hakeem olajuwon houston rockets twice triple-double 35 points five steals, games double-digit blocks rather assists.harden’s game cleveland without faults, shot 1 8 fourth quarter fairly close game. but, heels 56-point performance utah jazz sunday, recorded 33rd career triple-double. second career game triple-double five steals.when asked reporters week drew extra motivation big performances star players, harden said actually driven watching young players like donovan mitchell jazz, jayson tatum boston celtics ben simmons philadelphia 76ers.but argument made harden brings best james around, last three games james cavaliers — two houston — harden averaged 38 points, 13 assists 9.3 rebounds.
disputed penalty kick gives switzerland win world cup playoff belfast, northern ireland — controversial penalty awarded hand ball enough give switzerland 1-0 victory northern ireland first leg world cup playoff thursday.a volley xherdan shaqiri struck corey evans’s shoulder evans attempted block shot. romanian referee ovidiu hategan pointed penalty spot, drawing angry protests northern ireland players.ricardo rodriguez converted penalty kick 58th minute, putting swiss drivers’ seat qualify fourth world cup row.“it’s strange feeling referee knew made wrong decision,” evans said, “and i’m sure getting fed information throughout game could tell everybody else’s reaction maybe made wrong call.”northern ireland manager michael o’neill bemoaned lack video assistant referee technology world cup playoff series.“it’s staggering day age stakes high level game something like game-changer,” o’neill said. “i spent three hours conference week fifa video assistant refereeing, certainly see happened tonight would certainly advocate it.”boos rang final whistle home fans directed ire match official.the second leg played basel, switzerland, sunday.croatia 4, greece 1 croatia took decisive step toward world cup qualification, overwhelming greece first leg playoff.captain luka modric shook concerns poor form opening scoring penalty spot 13th minute.the italian referee gianluca rocchi awarded penalty goalkeeper orestis karnezis greece failed control ball fouled nikola kalinic poorly judged clearance.kalinic added another goal six minutes later, flicking cross ivan strinic side foot.greece struggled regain composure rarely attacked, sokratis papastathopoulos briefly silenced home crowd, sending header croatia goalkeeper danijel subasic net.but relief visitors short-lived. ivan perisic headed cross sime vrsaljko 33rd minute croatia dominated wings.the fourth goal came four minutes break andrej kramaric, swooping error kostas stafylidis.greece hosts second leg playoff sunday.
yankees’ interviews new manager begin familiar face 28 years yankees organization, rob thomson field coordinator, director player development, special assignment instructor, coach manager minor leagues, last decade major league club’s third-base coach bench coach.now, consummate organizational man, operated largely shadows, raising hand new job: yankees manager.thomson became first candidate expected lengthy list interview job since old boss, joe girardi, dismissed two weeks ago.thomson, 54, spent five hours wednesday interviewing general manager brian cashman, several cashman’s deputies others organization. thursday spoke 20 minutes conference call reporters cover team. yankees plan make candidate interview available similar manner.thomson one interview major-league manager’s position. came toronto 2010 — thomson canadian — done phone. said would like stay yankees organization get manager’s job, think interview courtesy.“because i’ve long, don’t think get free pass interview job,” said. “i think certain skills certain things pertain job.”thomson, manager since running yankees’ rookie-ball club oneonta, n.y., 1995, said believed knowledge organization asset. also distance girardi, cashman let go large part saw communication shortcomings.“i really don’t want compare joe,” thomson said. “i love joe. know this: strengths communications trust players, trust, implement things game, whether analytics sports science. whatever want do, think get players.”as bench coach last three seasons, thomson variety duties, including working outfielders distributing scouting reports players. another duties using dugout telephone serve go-between girardi brett weber, monitors replays yankees.thomson accepted responsibility replay snafu game 2 yankees’ american league division series cleveland indians, girardi neglected challenge call indians’ lonnie chisenhall hit hand pitch.thomson said turned use phone immediately seen reaction chisenhall catcher gary sanchez.“one thing learned take time phone always keep eyes field, sanchy reaction play, hitter reaction play,” thomson said.he added: “maybe kept head field, kind watched reaction, maybe would able help joe way. lot things learn — one play — me.”inside pitchthe yankees announced thursday moving start times 30 minutes monday-to-thursday home games april. seven games begin 6:35 p.m.
jerry jones doubles threats goodell’s compensation jerry jones, owner dallas cowboys, renewed threat suing n.f.l. derail efforts league’s compensation committee extend commissioner roger goodell’s contract, escalating bitter battle among powerful owners country’s powerful sports league.the recent threat came letter sent wednesday, day new york times reported jones hired high-profile controversial lawyer david boies told six owners committee would sue league alter commissioner’s pay package.in three-page letter sent lawyer representing committee rest league’s owners, cowboys’ general counsel said league’s fortunes significantly changed since may, owners, including jones, voted unanimously extend goodell’s contract five years give committee authority work details.in letter, copy obtained new york times, jones specify conditions changed since may. august, goodell suspended cowboys’ star running back, ezekiel elliott, six games accused assault former girlfriend. jones repeatedly spoken decision, put back effect thursday appeals court ruled emergency injunction would kept elliott field.through lawyer, jones said wanted goodell’s new contract, would begin 2019, include less guaranteed pay incentives tied league’s financial performance. jones noted goodell already paid $200 million decade since became commissioner, making decision potentially worth $200 million done carefully.in letter, repeatedly criticized committee chairman, atlanta falcons owner arthur blank, jones demanded owners, committee members, vote pay package.the cowboys’ lawyer, jason cohen, wrote jones want resort legal action, said might necessary stop committee’s work.“accordingly, jerry jones continue exercise right protect owners committee chairman’s undertaking substantial financial commitment behalf nfl without owners’ vote,” cohen wrote.a letter written behalf compensation committee, includes blank well owners chiefs, giants, patriots, steelers texans, brushed aside jones’s claims said call full vote details contract “contrary league’s operation practices.”“indeed, description proposed extension odds actual facts conclude either uninformed seek deliberately mislead owners,” stated letter, sent thursday.goodell’s contract extension, works six months, turned embarrassing proxy dispute jones goodell. many owners agree jones goodell inordinate amount sway league matters.typically, issues like commissioner’s contract finalized quietly. jones’s increasingly strident opposition elliott’s suspension, well goodell’s handling protests players refused stand national anthem, spilled open battle time league grappling even larger problems, including decline television ratings growing concerns safety game.goodell tried sidestep questions extension, mostly saying continue work behest owners interest league.joe lockhart, league spokesman, told reporters thursday 32 owners voted may extend goodell’s contract expected discussions extension “wrapped soon.”he denied reports goodell “furious” contract talks become focus dispute.he said unaware lawsuit filed jones league.asked expected lawsuit filed, lockhart said: “that’s question put mr. jones.”
cowboys’ ezekiel elliott may run options yet another court hearing resulted yet another change ezekiel elliott’s status, appears suspended ruling request emergency injunction.if sounds familiar, is. similar developments already played several times season elliott, dallas cowboys’ star running back.barring action, n.f.l. said thursday elliott’s six-game suspension — came result domestic violence allegations — effect. meant banned team facilities would allowed play cowboys’ game atlanta falcons sunday.the latest ruling came thursday united states court appeals second circuit, n.f.l. players association argued elliott’s behalf suspension delayed court could hear appeal. court’s decision said appeal hearing expedited, terminated temporary administrative stay suspension denied request emergency injunction. date given appeal would heard.the n.f.l. originally suspended elliott summer yearlong investigation allegations made former girlfriend his. elliott arrested charged crimes, n.f.l. built case statements made woman, along photographs injuries accused inflicting her.elliott argued investigation appeal process unfair him.“this bigger suspension, bigger football,” elliott told reporters last week. “it’s trying make something i’m not. i’m abuser, that’s am. name, reputation, something i’ll live beyond football. every day worth fighting.”elliott’s absence would presumably significant effect cowboys, three games row, thanks large part regaining form made n.f.l.’s leading rusher last season. second n.f.l. 783 rushing yards, three-game winning streak 390 rushing yards five rushing touchdowns. also 72-yard receiving touchdown first game streak, san francisco.when asked recently cowboys’ ability play without elliott, centerpiece offense, coach jason garrett said team would fine darren mcfadden alfred morris splitting carries.“we veteran running backs,” garrett said. “we depth position. it’s like we’re living day, don’t think future — that. think build team way positions.”if suspension enforced entire six games, elliott would eligible return dallas’s matchup seattle dec. 24.
putin sees u.s. conspiracy olympic doping ban 4 russians international olympic committee announced thursday penalized four russian athletes doping violations 2014 winter games sochi, prompting criticism president vladimir v. putin russia.four cross-country skiers disqualified barred competing future olympics: yuliia ivanova; alexey petukhov; evgeniya shapovalova; maksim vylegzhanin. sochi games, vylegzhanin three silver medals, olympic officials ordered russia return.though officials announced disciplinary decisions swiss spanish, putin called decisions american attempt undermine russia affect nation’s presidential election march. cited web “connections dependencies” within international sports.“the controlling stake located united states, main companies order pay television rights, main sponsors, main advertisement buyers forth located there,” said.“i serious suspicions done create necessary environment, incite discontent among sports fans, athletes, state allegedly involved violations responsible them,” putin said. “in response alleged interference elections, want create problems election president russia.”thursday’s disciplinary decisions among first i.o.c. officials made regarding russia’s state-sponsored doping program, corrupted several olympics — notably sochi games. russia’s federal security service sports officials staged elaborate overnight cheating operation enable nation’s athletes dope throughout competition.late last year, olympic committee provisionally suspended 28 russian athletes competed sochi.earlier month, olympic committee announced first formal penalties resulting cases. applied two russian cross-country skiers: evgeniy belov alexander legkov, gold silver medals sochi. results overturned, although decision appeal. addition announcing four new penalties thursday, olympic committee said closed disciplinary case one unidentified russian athlete.all decisions made disciplinary commission appointed year ago scrutinize individual athletes implicated revelations russia’s systematic cheating, exposed nation’s former antidoping lab chief, dr. grigory rodchenkov, lives united states.in 2016, rodchenkov detailed devised three-drug cocktail, administered russia’s top olympians. worked overnight security service officers, said, break supposedly tamper-proof bottles urine sochi games swap incriminating samples.a subsequent investigation commissioned world anti-doping agency, global sports’ drug regulator, confirmed account forensic evidence revealed vast scope cheating, implicating 1,000 athletes competed 2011 2015.“i find completely absurd, alcohol mixed steroids even sounds laughable,” legkov said may 2016, day new york times named one russian olympians ingested specially formulated cocktail anabolic steroids whiskey, speed body’s absorption drugs games. “as steroids — don’t even know look are.”the olympic committee provided little detail cases thursday. “the reasoning decisions communicated due course,” organization said news release. “due nature complexity cases, thorough, comprehensive time-consuming process taken several months involve external forensic experts, develop legally-defendable methodology.”russian athletes likely appeal decisions international sports arbitration court, headquartered switzerland. lifetime ban vulnerable overturned court, previously prevented i.o.c. automatically disqualifying athlete convicted doping offense future olympics.another olympic commission led former president switzerland, samuel schmid, similarly scrutinizing rodchenkov’s account deliberating punish russia ahead 2018 winter games pyeongchang, south korea.possible penalties consideration olympic officials include preventing russia’s national anthem playing games barring athletes marching opening ceremony. olympic committee expected announce decision first week december.
jack sock’s comeback turns title resurgence jack sock out, lying stomach secondary court paris masters trainer massaged stiff lower back.true, sock saved break point previous game kyle edmund, kept trailing 0-5 third final set opening-round match.it looked much like end sock’s season, one started full deep runs promise largely failed deliver. back felt looser rose resume play, though soon fell behind 1-5, played fresh abandon salvaged match tiebreaker, 4-6, 7-6 (4), 7-6 (5).four rounds later, also found way win title — first masters 1000 tournament — earned spot top 10 final slot tour’s exclusive event, eight-man atp finals begin sunday london.“we weren’t feeling good 1-5,” said jay berger, sock’s new coach. “but it’s great lesson learn great jack realize get one match, it’s pretty amazing things do.”no american masters 1000, top tier men’s events grand slam tournaments, since andy roddick miami open 2010. american played atp finals since mardy fish 2011 he, too, secured eighth final spot paris.that achievement felt like late-career reward fish, 29 time roger federer reset biological clock men’s tennis excellence.sock, long considered great talent wrenching forehand athleticism, turned 25 september.he said consequences surprise paris victory, breaking top 10 meant most. “i think everyone grows aspires tennis player dreams top 10 pushing going far can,” said interview.asked might frame copy week’s atp rankings, no. 9, sock demurred said, “i hope framing lower number future.”still, giddy times man arrived paris ranked no. 22 thoughts atp finals debut. players seemingly better placed claim final slot.“obviously there’s eight guys year make u.s. — — special,” said sock, face federer opening singles match sunday. “i’m going go london play free. snuck last spot, nothing lose.”sock did, however, miss tee time augusta national golf club john isner, booked week home masters.sock indoors o2 arena instead, berger make new travel arrangements own.berger planning late-season european travel decided leave post june head men’s tennis united states tennis association player development program. goal improve golf game watch son play — daniel berger two-time winner pga tour part year’s winning presidents cup team united states.instead, berger got call june sock, met berger teenager looking help splitting longtime coach troy hahn.“i think understand jack,” berger said. “and really first time saw play, really believed him. know bones he’s great player, told would certainly help out. hesitate.”now, rush, berger, top-10 player himself, working another top-10 player.“it’s late-season surge; it’s one-tournament surge,” said brad gilbert, coach espn analyst.but platform big rankings leap built first three months 2017, sock titles auckland, new zealand, delray beach, fla., lost federer semifinals masters 1000 event indian wells, calif., rafael nadal quarterfinals masters 1000 tournament miami.but soon sock made long trip australia back april play losing effort united states davis cup team, season turned struggle.“he playing super-high level, got overextended bit scheduling,” said mike wolf, sock’s longtime mentor overland park, kan., remains part coaching team. “he take kind breather, somewhat us. play much got hurt.”sock injured knee training grass queen’s club wimbledon played grand slam event anyway, losing second round. also attributed midseason difficulties lost confidence personal issues want discuss public.“mental stuff court,” sock said. “just normal life stuff.”he happier place now, traveling asia europe autumn girlfriend, michala burns, former tennis player palm beach atlantic university.“there lonely moments tour sure,” sock said. “so someone obviously cares care her, definitely helps.”sock unusual look top tennis player chinstrap beard. court, uncommon mix brute force backcourt feathery touch forecourt; rugged frame belies remarkable foot speed. also rackets strung extraordinarily low tension, sometimes 40 pounds.“with feel ability control slingshot effect, affords easy power,” wolf said.but upon arrival paris, sock 11 last 24 matches, losing six times first round. one defeats came united states open, beaten jordan thompson australia five sets.“the u.s. open massive letdown me,” sock said. “i actually pretty depressed that. mind, i’d put physically mentally great position go really well.”instead, had, much rivals’ surprise, put position well paris great duress.“paris important jack lot levels,” said jim courier, united states davis cup captain former no. 1. “if loses edmund, year-end ranking would roughly one year ago, would successful year him. title, jumped different place mentally, ranking-wise eyes locker room.”
fantasy football: start n.f.l. week 10 seen enough football season good idea defenses represent favorable fantasy matchups offensive position, remaining n.f.l. schedule worth looking at.but warned: overanalyzing matchups could lead bad decisions.for example, todd gurley brutal remaining schedule. five next six opponents among 10 toughest fantasy matchups running backs, including three top five (the texans, vikings eagles).but players like gurley, strength opponent affect play whether keep him. gurley matchup proof season. even 20-point-plus performances two tough run defenses (the cowboys cardinals).on flip side, strength opponent could significant factor players performed consistently gurley has. take lesean mccoy, taken ahead gurley drafts last summer season.with favorable matchups chargers, colts patriots (twice) rest way, might see mccoy right ship give fantasy owners major boost second half. also won’t hurt bills balanced offensive attack adding receiver kelvin benjamin.before get far ahead ourselves, let’s break week 10 fantasy perspective.jared goff (lar vs. texans) — may time accept rams high-powered offense, full display week 9 giants. goff led charge four touchdown passes rams routed giants, 51-17. goff prove locked-in fantasy starter week, consider one texans, allowed fourth fantasy points per game quarterbacks (19.3) season.tyrod taylor (buf vs. saints) — taylor top 10 fantasy quarterback past three weeks, averaging 21.2 f.p.p.g. span. makes taylor safer bet fantasy quarterbacks running ability. 210 rushing yards fifth among quarterbacks added two touchdowns runner. former panthers receiver kelvin benjamin set debut team, joining jordan matthews, zay jones charles clay bills’ receiving corps, taylor could even stronger second half season.also consider: josh mccown (nyj buccaneers)jordan howard (chi vs. packers) — howard least 20 carries four games season. days, makes workhorse, one seven players so. productive carries, too, topping 12 fantasy points five eight games. last time played packers, ran 53 yards scored touchdown. packers yield fourth f.p.p.g. (20.9) position allowed eight backs top least 10 fantasy points eight games played.carlos hyde (sf vs. giants) — help second targets among backs, third receptions, hyde consistent fantasy performer season. five games either top-15 back least 12-point scorer, held 7 fantasy points once. expect success imploding giants defense got mauled rams’ todd gurley 22 fantasy points.also consider: lamar miller (hou rams)robby anderson (nyj buccaneers) — it’s time take anderson seriously terms fantasy production. know, feels weird talking jets offensive player given last years production, quarterback josh mccown found nice rhythm throwing anderson, jermaine kearse tight end austin seferian-jenkins. anderson averaged 12 fantasy points per game last three weeks. season, 14th fantasy points among wide receivers. next matchup team given third fantasy points wide receiver position (25.3 f.p.p.g.).juju smith-schuster (pit colts) — flashing signs could productive n.f.l. receiver first half, exploded week 8 193 yards seven receptions touchdown. coming bye week, there’s reason think smith-schuster team’s second receiving option behind antonio brown, matter team says getting martavis bryant involved. matchup colts lead fantasy success, allowed second receiving yards (293.1 per game) seventh fantasy points (23.7 f.p.p.g.) position.also consider: sammy watkins (lar vs. texans)cameron brate (tb vs. jets) — there’s lot good fantasy news coming tampa bay late, quarterback jameis winston expected miss three games receiver mike evans suspended week 10. even ryan fitzpatrick behind center, brate considered decent fantasy asset thin tight end position, especially favorable matchup jets (9.5 f.p.p.g., fifth most).lar vs. texans; det vs. brownskai forbath (min redskins); ryan succop (ten vs. bengals).
biggest obstacle young british coaches? old british coaches oct. 27, sam allardyce sat television studio doha, qatar. two days everton fired ronald koeman manager, four since leicester city appointed claude puel, frenchman, post.allardyce gulf appear bein sports show hosted richard keys andy gray, veteran british broadcasting duo drifting reluctant obsolescence ostracized workplace harassment scandal. there, part, discuss keys described “glass ceiling” faced english managers.this is, course, allardyce’s specialist subject. long championed idea british coaches readily overlooked premier league clubs thrall exotic imports. 2010, declared better “suited” managing real madrid manchester united employers, blackburn rovers. two years later, decreed would champions league coach glamorous surname.in keys gray, allardyce knew sympathetic audience. last december, appeared show claim premier league’s top six appointing “branded” foreign coaches held global appeal. couple days october appearance, keys tweeted leicester’s appointment puel sounded death knell british coaching.in front willing audience, allardyce readily reprised greatest hit. british coaches, said, seen “second class” england. have, said, “nowhere go.”“the premier league foreign league england,” concluded.allardyce delighted, then, events last two weeks. leicester might followed fashion foreign, west ham not: appointed david moyes, scot, replace croatian coach, slaven bilic. everton seems set follow. within days appearance doha, allardyce reported held talks farhad moshiri, club’s largest shareholder, koeman’s position.indeed, allardyce’s passion british coaches matched prescience. week appeared keys gray december last year, appointed manager crystal palace. two weeks recent remarks, line return work again. almost sets make visible — employment moral, well professional, issue — whenever suspects opportunities may arise. say sharks sense blood water.the reality is, however, appointment moyes, prospective return allardyce, cause celebration british coaches two men themselves. should, fact, precisely opposite. surface, nobody done highlight plight british managers allardyce (or moyes). beneath it, men — like — part problem, solution.there 92 clubs four professional divisions english soccer. time writing, 22 foreign coaches. precisely half men work premier league, among 11 bosses six teams — arsenal, chelsea, tottenham, liverpool, manchester city manchester united — might reasonably hope win title start given season.that number slowly increasing recent years, giving rise broadly held, largely accepted assumption, voiced allardyce, foreign managers blocking path england’s bright young things.the premise not, though, stand scrutiny. four top six clubs managed briton least last decade: alex ferguson moyes manchester united; kenny dalglish brendan rodgers liverpool; harry redknapp tim sherwood tottenham; mark hughes manchester city.only chelsea arsenal — fairly unusual case comes managerial stability — given british manager opportunity. circumstances, anything, remainder elite little nationalist appointments.all six see champions league clubs. reasonable believe qualified candidates managerial posts managed champions league clubs previously. candidates, logically, often found abroad.it real problem lies. eight — nine, allardyce appointed everton — british managers premier league, one, bournemouth’s eddie howe, age 40. two — burnley’s sean dyche swansea city’s paul clement — 50.the rest range 54 (moyes, installed west ham, hughes stoke) 70 (roy hodgson, palace’s latest manager). them, including allardyce, held 25 premier league jobs.it would harsh suggest without merit, dismiss experience hand, worth noting failure seem reduce employability. moyes’s work almost decade everton impressive, five home league games two years. fired manchester united, real sociedad sunderland, led relegation. west ham still appointed him, despite howls protest fans, try avoid fate.the second-tier championship problem: 7 24 managers foreign, telling 5 17 british coaches division 40 under.in league one, 24-team third division, six british coaches 40. league two, eight (and plenty little 40), though worth noting many clubs employ novice — likes barnet yeovil town — necessarily budget attract established name.across three divisions, though, 19 managers age 50. them, appointed english clubs 103 times; cardiff city’s neil warnock clubhouse leader, 14th league job.so allardyce right: glass ceiling. one constructed migrant workers, ilk. foreign coaches prevent young british hopefuls finding jobs, older native managers. stifling effect hard list half dozen realistic, english contenders premier league job. generation domestic coaches given chance; generation domestic coaches given chance.eager rectify that, football association invested little time resources recent years improving coaching courses game’s new national base, st. george’s park. facility’s first five years, 1,300 prospective managers passed doors. knows bright ideas, clever innovations, might collectively possess?nobody, alas, ever find out. world entering barren, inhospitable. manchester united appointed josé mourinho liverpool hired jurgen klopp, rungs beneath clubs already occupied group men decade more, always offered hand back up, matter many times fall off.it lack imagination clubs makes english managers seem limited compared continental peers, ensures english managers always adopting german, italian spanish concepts styles: old ideas, riddled old flaws, regurgitated again.it misidentification failure experience, too, explains british coaching remains steadfastly white — old faces means old color — premier league’s ambitious teams now, increasingly, managed foreigners.it teams want appoint locally; realistically, cannot. look proving grounds lower reaches premier league — howe dyche aside — championship, future be, see past.there nothing wrong allardyce’s conclusion. opportunities young english coaches. explanation incorrect. imports blocking road: allardyce, represents, standing way.
pistons’ new home, empty seats hockey statues detroit — spent pleasant evening shiny new sports arena spruced-up neighborhood once-decaying city, feels unduly meanspirited mention place feels kind empty.but vexing situation lately detroit, enormous fanfare greeted opening little caesars arena september followed succession not-so-enormous basketball crowds.though detroit pistons’ first home game announced near sellout, 20,491 seats sold, many people supposedly paid seats appeared sitting actual game. pistons 26th n.b.a. home attendance thursday, average 16,214 first six games new arena.local news organizations sports websites quick notice. “do blame pistons fans empty seats little caesars arena?” scott decamp asked mlive news site.on pistonpowered, fan site, duncan smith said: “if enjoy watching pistons, many people prefer viewing experience home.”people different explanations, starting fact pistons world’s thrilling team recent years.“it’s pistons, man — never win,” said daniel bronston, 29, cook game minnesota timberwolves late last month. (he exaggerating. team 9-3, handily beat minnesota evening, 122-101. fair say pistons’ performance recent years anemic.)then area itself. stan van gundy, pistons’ coach, said little caesars surrounding neighborhood full distractingly fun stuff do, fans would lured wandering outside would return seats watch game.“they build great restaurants, everybody goes eats,” said recently. “the first half third quarter, there’s one building.”for almost 30 years, pistons played palace auburn hills, detroit suburb hosted franchise’s bad boys-era title teams 1989 ’90 also less pugnacious championship squad 2004.suburban fans came game timberwolves last month said adjust new location — hard thing fans like old routines — also new breed visitors.“ten years ago, nobody wanted live downtown, everybody does, especially young professionals ‘hipsters,’ call them,” said dustin kosnik, 26, engineer auto industry. “hipsters want everything it’s cool.”as far pistons’ management concerned, arena extremely cool. built olympia development, part ilitch family empire, cost $862.9 million, $324 million public financing. brought new life once-neglected area detroit, retail shops, upmarket restaurants handsome new recently renovated housing.the arena originally built city’s hockey team, red wings, relocated joe louis arena across town. (the ilitch family owns red wings little caesars pizza chain, explains arena’s name.) fans grumbled name, found déclassé, huge little caesars logo roof building — man toga waving pizza appears spear — found annoying.“i’m officially embarrassed,” one red wings fan, brent latam, wrote twitter. nicknames proposed disgruntled fans new arena included oven, pizzarena, frozen pizza voldemort arena (“because never refer name”).but cleveland fans could get used showing quicken loans arena, cavaliers play, surely detroit fans cope gym named pizza conglomerate, even one fails use essential apostrophe title. “welcome little caesars arena, newest, exciting arena world!” blared loudspeaker side building fans arrived recent game.charlie metzger, pistons’ chief revenue marketing officer, said team pleased things gone far. 80 percent last year’s season-ticket holders came back, said, team added 3,000 new ones.“there’s adjustment period,” said, “but overall reaction we’ve gotten very, positive. addition brand-new building, excitement part what’s happening city.”sure, fans feel aggrieved see hockey-centric atmosphere, reflected steeply graded seats seems disproportionate array red wings memorabilia scattered ground-floor concourse. arena full statues hockey players like gordie howe ted lindsay, famous pistons like isiah thomas joe dumars settle mostly appearing photographs suspended ceiling.the thought lost players, either. little caesars looks “more like hockey arena,” pistons’ star center, andre drummond, tweeted september.he told reporters: “i went last month, felt there’s lot hockey stuff. i’m like, damn, mean, understand we’re sharing arena, … ”metzger said memorabilia display work progress. “we’re working closely partnership wings make sure teams properly represented,” said.the point guard reggie jackson said thrilled playing ice floor, state affairs little caesars, course, shares many combination arenas.“i don’t think people know, especially ice there, it’s little bit colder,” jackson said last month. “you’re breathing cold air you’re trying exercise, first thing happens goes chest.”at timberwolves game, mood gently benign rather raucously enthusiastic. arena best stir fans’ passions, were. music blasted across crowd. “we feel excitement,” said jumbotron, sentiment circumstances felt aspirational descriptive. although pistons dominated game, crowd seemed respond vociferously workers roamed stands dispensing giant michigan state lottery cards.but it’s hard love little caesars, fits seamlessly city.“before, no-go area, full derelict land abandoned buildings,” said craig hepworth, brief return visit detroit moving florida search sun. “it’s great able stay downtown stuff instead getting car driving away right game.“if detroit gets nicer,” added, “we’ll move back.”
without porzingis, knicks fall magic orlando, fla. — nikola vucevic scored 24 points evan fournier added 23 help orlando magic beat knicks, minus kristaps porzingis, 112-99 wednesday night.jonathon simmons scored 15 16 points second half. surge came right time scored 11 straight points early fourth quarter, pushed magic’s lead double figures.the magic, benefiting return starting point guard elfrid payton, ended two-game losing streak. knicks, playing without porzingis, dealing injuries ankle elbow, three-game winning streak come end.in porzingis’s absence, tim hardaway jr. knicks’ consistent scoring threat, 26 points 11 rebounds 38 minutes. knicks’ second-leading scorer doug mcdermott, 13 points bench.the knicks entered game six last seven games, seemed sync offensively without porzingis. shot 53 percent field committed 23 turnovers.thanks payton’s return, magic showed improvement offense. shot 54 percent field 46 percent 3-point range, mainly strength spacing payton provided. missed eight straight games hamstring injury, finished 11 points, 11 assists six rebounds first game back.aaron gordon also came magic 21 points. 4 6 3-point range 8 11 field signature alley-oop passes payton.
leonardo ferrari set contemporary art sales new track bellwether november gigaweek art auctions starting monday promises drama, talked-about inclusion new york contemporary art sale years — last-minute exclusion works norman rockwell.what painting leonardo da vinci (1452-1519) christie’s sale postwar contemporary art wednesday night, sandwiched jean-michel basquiat latvian-born vija celmins?simple. important biannual auctions, evening contemporary sales world’s wealthiest art collectors buying. christie’s expecting leonardo’s recently rediscovered “salvator mundi” sell least $100 million.a guarantee minimum, undisclosed bid, third party, ensures price certain set new high old master auction, beating $76.7 million achieved 2002 sotheby’s london rubens masterpiece “the massacre innocents” ($83.5 million today).and fees added, also exceed colossal $110.5 million spent japanese collector yusaku maezawa jean-michel basquiat painting sotheby’s contemporary auction may. allure leonardo already inspired paramount buy film rights walter isaacson’s newly published biography italian renaissance artist, leonardo dicaprio lead.“it’s iconic picture iconic name,” jean-luc baroni, dealer old masters, based london, said leonardo. “by putting contemporary sale, shine big light painting.” clients contemporary art, “the price level might sound less prohibitive,” added.impressionist, modern contemporary art estimated value least $1.6 billion offered christie’s, sotheby’s phillips. value consignments, include works francis bacon, andy warhol, fernand leger franz kline, well as, incongruously, ferrari racecar, represents increase 46 percent equivalent auctions last november.the $110.5 million bid may 1982 basquiat dramatic indicator auction market contemporary art grown last six months. two years contraction, global auction sales contemporary art grew 14 percent first half 2017, “signaling new period prosperity,” according report published artprice.com, monitors auction results.david nisinson, collector art adviser based new york, said year ago uncertainty united states election would affect stock market, “it’s continued go up. there’s lot unexpected money around, confident,” mr. nisinson said.confident buyers give confidence sellers, particularly entries backed guaranteed prices. half 74 lots sotheby’s tuesday night contemporary auction carry form guarantee. (the figure bit lower christie’s.)with dow jones industrial average all-time high, president trump planning tax cuts corporations wealthy, key indicators seem positive top end art market, least america.but one two clouds horizon.president trump’s proposed tax changes include measure restrict 1031 like-kind exchanges real estate transactions. provision allowed high-end art investors sell works quickly replace pieces similar value defer paying federal taxes.“there many active influential players use it,” said mr. nisinson, collector. “they’re constantly selling buying without pay capital gains. sell less less money buy with. could put damper things.”but moment, wealth spend millions art plenty choose from. next week’s highlights — one cliffhanger withdrawal.leonardo’s ‘salvator mundi’it hailed experts art discovery century. dating 1500, panel painting christ “savior world,” identified 2011 exhibition national gallery london long-lost original leonardo owned 17th century queen henrietta maria, wife king charles england.but comes christie’s plenty baggage. 2005, “salvator mundi,” unrecognized much overpainted condition, bought estate auction united states less $10,000.after cleaned researched, painting, cataloged work leonardo, sold 2013 three dealers swiss businessman yves bouvier $80 million private transaction brokered sotheby’s. soon afterward, mr. bouvier sold painting $127.5 million russian billionaire collector dmitry e. rybolovlev, whose family trust seller christie’s. profits made mr. bouvier 37 artworks bought mr. rybolovlev become subject ongoing legal dispute two men.the picture also abraded condition, giving image ghostlike quality. luke syson, curator national gallery’s 2011 “leonardo da vinci: painter court milan” exhibition, said catalog “salvator mundi” “aggressively over-cleaned.”given condition “salvator mundi,” fact undocumented artist’s lifetime, scholars reservations attribution leonardo. carmen c. bambach, curator metropolitan museum art’s current michelangelo show, well one 2003 leonardo, said 2012 review national gallery exhibition “much original painting surface may boltraffio, passages done leonardo himself.” (giovanni antonio boltraffio worked studio leonardo.) ms. bambach said email friday revised view painting.but christie’s said catalog currently “broad consensus” among academics work artist himself.christie’s leonardo, sotheby’s ferrari.sotheby’s has, first time, turned formula one racecar diversify appeal contemporary art sale. tuesday, offering 900 horsepower ferrari f2001, chassis michael schumacher drove victory 2001 monaco hungarian grand prix. guaranteed sell least $4 million touted sotheby’s “the important modern formula one racecar existence.”“this bold move,” said simon kidston, founder geneva-based car dealership kidston. “it’s ferrari, extension it’s collectible. one greatest ferraris? no,” added, pointing 2004 bonhams sold ferrari f1/2000 schumacher four grands prix.basketball drawing david hammons latest round auctions boosted prestigious estates coming market. christie’s four works evening sale estate philanthropist melva bucksbaum, former vice-chairwoman whitney museum american art new york. include “untitled (basketball drawing)” david hammons, 2003, made repeatedly bouncing graphite-encrusted nba ball sheet paper.the recent “soul nation: art age black power” exhibition tate modern london enhanced mr. hammons’s reputation among influential african-american contemporary artists. ms. bucksbaum’s 10-foot-high example relatively early estimated sell $1 million $1.5 million. current auction high hammons drawing $1.6 million, according artnet.picasso crayon drawingpreviously best known selling works younger artists, phillips developing reputation auctioning valuable pieces 20th-century art. thursday evening sale includes 1946 picasso colored crayon drawing, “portrait de femme endormie iii,” estate anne marie aberbach julian j. aberbach. serene study artist’s muse, françoise gilot, sleeping, estimated $1 million $1.5 million likely go higher. “the design considered color rich,” said david norman, art adviser new york. “it possesses transported, sensual quality marie-thérèse,” added, referring earlier works inspired picasso’s relationship marie-thérèse walter.norman rockwell paintingsthe talked-about exclusion week undoubtedly seven artworks berkshire museum pittsfield, mass., due sold sotheby’s monday sale american art.the massachusetts appeals court friday blocked sale group, included two paintings norman rockwell. 1950 oil canvas, “shuffleton’s barbershop,” showing silver-haired men making music lamplit interior, described biographer artist, deborah solomon, “one five six best works” given estimated price $20 million $30 million sotheby’s. artist donated painting museum 1959.the rockwells among 40 artworks deaccessioned financially-strapped berkshire museum fund redevelopment program. though opposed two groups plaintiffs, including rockwell’s sons, well office massachusetts attorney general, maura healey, sale approved tuesday berkshire superior court judge. ms. healey’s request injunction halting sale granted appeal. injunction expire dec. 11, may extended.this abortive sale represents cautionary moment auction houses contract museums cleared sale local communities regulators.sotheby’s, statement, said: “we never doubted board trustees acted good faith well within legal rights, remain confident prevail plans ensure bright future berkshire museum.”
governors awards omit mention (onstage) sex harassment scandals los angeles — show apparently goes on.on saturday night, chauffeured s.u.v.’s carrying likes jennifer lawrence steven spielberg inched gridlock traffic en route governors awards, first major stop hollywood’s long march oscars, question hung air: would attendees handle self-celebration time sexual harassment scandals engulfing entertainment industry?on presenter list hollywood’s outspoken women, including angelina jolie, ava duvernay jessica chastain. would tone less gleeful usual? perhaps piper-heidsieck brut champagne would flow little less freely?the outcome perhaps summed best moment cocktail hour, waiter arrived tray hors d’oeuvres. “deviled eggs everyone!” cheerfully pronounced.indeed, topic sexual harassment went unmentioned formal ceremony, lasted three hours covered honorary oscars cinematographer owen roizman, actor donald sutherland three directors — agnès varda, charles burnett alejandro g. iñárritu. closest anyone came elephant room ms. jolie, introduced ms. varda, filmmaker credited inspiring french new wave movement 1956 film, “la pointe courte.”“we need draw strength artists like agnès,” ms. jolie said stage. “those women went first, took first step, showed way us.”then ms. jolie mischievous ms. varda little dance.it seemed moments governors awards taking place parallel dimension torrent sexual harassment allegations male stars, producers directors exist. dustin hoffman, instance, strode onstage greeted enthusiastic applause. recent weeks, mr. hoffman accused sexual harassment two women. issued apology nov. 1.mr. hoffman hand present honorary oscar mr. roizman, whose credits include “the french connection” “the exorcist.” mr. hoffman, worked “tootsie,” praised mr. roizman’s “integrity craftsman person.”despite efforts academy motion picture arts sciences keep focus evening honorees, crowd privately chatted almost nonstop allegations — span roughly month — toppled harvey weinstein, kevin spacey, brett ratner, roy price, james toback louis c.k. over, people grimly speculated might next.at least lobster mini-taco tray came around.
nick kroll still isn’t puberty. ask therapist. squirm-inducing take puberty — bodily changes, mood swings sexual curiosity — netflix series “big mouth” shockingly dirty.“but beneath show that’s trying talk really important lessons,” said nick kroll, one stars creators. “something adults would enjoy also kids could watch feel like they’re traversing incredibly tricky time alone.”“big mouth” reimagines puberty real-life besties andrew goldberg, early bloomer, mr. kroll, late one, they’re guided demonic hormone monster (voiced mr. kroll) monstress (maya rudolph). one escapes unscathed: among tales teenage terror night andrew (john mulaney) ejaculates slow-dancing girl day jessi (jessi klein) gets period class trip statue liberty — white shorts, less.in call buenos aires, shooting chris weitz’s “operation finale,” hunt adolf eichmann, mr. kroll discussed coming-of-age embarrassments. edited excerpts conversation.what’s humiliating puberty story?i got “pantsed” seventh grade. underwear came well, penis exposed girl crush on. hadn’t hit puberty, bald little cashew. definitely lasting effect.you’ve called autobiographical shows. many feelings emotions going 12 13 become dna rest life. i’ve therapy long time found things talking would use building character nick, vice versa.when start puberty?i got first pubic hair going high school, 14-ish. small gregarious and, think, likable kid. hit puberty, became much temperamental explosive, parents taken aback. also grew probably 10 inches high school, strapping 140 pounds.how parents cope?i youngest four, mom’s way handle straightforward, like, “a boy’s nipples become engorged, secondary sex characteristics.” way demystifying weirdly effect staring friends’ nipples like, “i guess he’s probably going puberty.” left aware wasn’t happening me.a lot lessons quite sensitive. episode andrew wonders he’s gay gets erection looks rock?the impetus kids figuring sexuality. get sexually excited different things, don’t exactly know means something titillating. age, people friends they’re incredibly close they’re trying parse means. think agree that, however want identify sexually, rock inherently attractive person.are working sex-ed expert? peggy orenstein wrote “girls & sex”; major influence [our desire] give equal weight experience girls have. fifth episode, jessi conversation vagina, voiced kristen wiig. it’s amazing peggy since reached us twitter, we’ve got little dialogue going.john mulaney also co-starred broadway hit, “oh, hello.” seen last gil george?if gil george druthers, we’ll branson, mo., yacov smirnoff’s theater “oh, hello 2” soon. [silence ends] i’m joking, course.amy sedaris guest “oh, hello.” returned favor “at home amy sedaris,” gave anatomical feature mother could appreciate.[we shot episode around] birthday, spending day playing best birthday present could ask for. got there, like, “how would feel pepperoni nipples?” ready say yes anything.
taylor swift 2017 pop machine ‘reputation,’ cost? taylor swift known kiss-off, eerily intimate way dismantles wronged her. songwriter performer long thrived antagonism (it’s one two poles; swooning), pop star modern era communicated contours disappointment emotional precision melodic sophistication.“i something bad,” comes third new album, “reputation,” hallmarks classic swift assault: lyrics men depth sprinkled enough details imply grave shortcomings.but chorus something different: “they say something bad/then why’s feel good?” surface, it’s awakening, really, it’s takedown. target — innocence, naïveté, way striving flawless perhaps ultimate flaw.the bombastic, unexpected, sneakily potent “reputation” many things: it’s first album ms. swift cursed (“damn” doesn’t count); it’s first time sung consuming alcohol (and repeatedly that); it’s vehicle overt songs sexual agency. ms. swift 27 now, things used deny — song, least — more.but also ms. swift chasing good feeling, pushing back decade following instincts. works. “reputation” fundamentally unlike albums takes account — prioritizes, actually — tempo tone competition. “reputation” public renegotiation, engaging pop music terms, hers.and even though what’s au courant pop — post-drake lite-soul noir, gothic plain dramatists like halsey selena gomez — doesn’t necessarily play ms. swift’s strengths, barrels ahead here, finding ways incorporate arsenal, it. things lost, sure, turns ms. swift effective distiller everyone else’s pop ideas charting sui generis path.that means shift away signature melodies approach uses voice accent piece, seasoning — difference songs 24k taylor ones merely taylor-plated. means continued de-emphasis — one began last album, “1989” — sorts dense narratives integral early career. means songs here, ms. swift something least little bit like rapping. (i’m sorry, old taylor can’t come studio right now.)make mistake: jarring propositions. yet ms. swift commits thrives, act liberation past, also calculation marketplace bear.that’s “1989,” left ms. swift make pop songs way superstars do. songs “reputation” produced either max martin associates, jack antonoff ms. swift. men longtime collaborators hers, outsized role shaping sound current pop.where bring ms. swift soft-core pop-r&b, synth-thick production moves sensual gallop. “delicate,” one album’s standouts, could pass drake-rihanna collaboration. here, ms. swift whisper-sings newfound attention rhythm. (she also sings vocoder part song.) something similar, even outré, happening “dress,” — ms. swift’s blushing exhales — sounds like something club-soul revivalists alunageorge might make.these songs emphasize cadence singing, melody range. songs here, breaks kind intermittently unconvincing talk-singing. persistent theme album: borrowing styles approaches black music, softening enough ms. swift credibly attempt them.the striking example “end game,” smoothly swaggering thumper featuring future ed sheeran. ms. swift would go sigh sigh future’s warbles would unthinkable five years ago, here, twist, person sounds least home mr. sheeran.the ideas ms. swift producers borrowing long simmering pop mainstream. (nothing jolt imported dubstep drop “i knew trouble,” 2012, back still novel.) what’s notable, though, hasn’t gone innovators ideas, rather used mr. martin mr. antonoff alchemists filters.that approach also serves another purpose, protect limitations voice. songs — “don’t blame me,” especially, faintly recalls madonna’s gospel-choir era — call melisma, soul-informed vocal approach blends tough nimble. ms. swift’s gifts. strong singer ever (even album doesn’t much let loose), much singing done piecemeal.that’s almost songs sum different parts; many move several different directions, one hard turn next. guitars, they’re present, generally distant mix.this kind structural maximalism becoming hallmark pop-era swift. “i something bad” energy revving motorcycle, first two singles, “ … ready it?” “look made do,” use harsh sounds urgent buildup segments theatrical, bruising effect.this work producers: mr. martin team handle album’s rowdy first half, mr. antonoff dominant emotionally focused second half. ms. swift’s tone changes throughout album well — beginning, indignant barbed, end she’s practically cooing.she still adversaries sight; jabs kanye west, also ex-boyfriend two. here, too, turns magnifying glass around. caustic aware songwriting album herself. “getaway car” happens leap blithely one relationship another. ms. swift imagistic best here: “the ties black, lies white/in shades gray candlelight/i wanted leave him, needed reason.”this familiar swift stuff — least, familiar swift stuff. album, it’s longer priority. album closer, “new year’s day,” acoustic song, also one best written (though feels indebted mr. sheeran ms. swift).it also probably song that, upon first listen, doesn’t prompt existential question what, exactly, constitutes taylor swift song 2017. making modern album — one steadily visits hostile territory comes largely unscathed — ms. swift actually delivered brainteaser: you’re using people’s parts, ever really recreate self?
michelangelo divine star must-see show season “michelangelo: divine draftsman designer” metropolitan museum art monument monument. 200 works, core group 133 drawings beyond-famous artist — largest number ever assembled — loan 50 front-rank collections, it’s curatorial coup. important, it’s art historical tour de force: panoptic view titanic career recorded fragile media — paper, chalk, ink.it’s show demands: requires fully present. snapping smartphones won’t do. drawing graphic experience; it’s textural one, pressure crayon pen page; subliminal fade focus lines; weave shadow-creating swells surfaces. barely seeable, never mind photographable, effects are, one way another, truest evidence artist’s hand.and final drumroll: fame michelangelo buonarroti may last long, met-built monument him, opens monday, nov. 13, not. it’s one-stop event non-extendable three-month run, maximum exposure light, even dusk-level, drawings safely stand. show’s done, likelihood another scale within lifetime anyone reading words slim.giving full account anyone’s art means giving sense came from, get here. although michelangelo would last tell us — liked present parthenogenetic wonder — art training. born 1475 line minor florentine nobility, entered workshop domenico ghirlandaio pupil-apprentice age 13. fastidious painter may learned practice, uncommon time, making preparatory drawings work permanent mediums.yet michelangelo’s self-starter claims may still stand scrutiny. according dates assigned drawings near beginning show, could sketching figures frescoes giotto masaccio local churches early 16. small oil-and-tempera painting called “the torment saint anthony,” based print martin schongauer, came time ghirlandaio stint. it’s impressive: teenage artist skillfully edits schongauer’s midair tangle demons-and-saint, sets invented seascape.by 1490-91, seems come tutelage bertoldo di giovanni. significant older sculptor, bertoldo also curator antiquities collection lorenzo de’ medici amassed enhance social status family. michelangelo, interlude formative. confirmed sculpture medium cared deeply; exposed classical tradition would emulate transform; initiated lifelong medici connection would boon curse.but questions came first arise too, centered marble sculpture called “young archer.” many years, figure nude youth stood, barely noticed, cultural services french embassy fifth avenue, across street met. 1996, art historian identified michelangelo. call hotly debated, attribution stood. “circa 1496-97” date attached work makes altogether possible michelangelo carved figure age 21, making prodigy claimed be.with sculpture, found would favorite subject, one would make name: heroic male body. approximately decade “young archer” came colossal “david,” michelangelo star, medici darling, way becoming new kind public celebrity aimed be: highly skilled maker things, multitasking, miracle-working aristocrat creativity called genius. michelangelo didn’t coin term, (with reluctant nod leonardo da vinci) coined type.prestigious commissions, painting, sculpture architecture, piled up. 1504, asked fresco council chamber palazzo della signoria, seat florentine government. leonardo, 30 years senior, friend, assigned opposite wall. idea would paint historic battle, michelangelo’s one troop 14th-century florentine soldiers interrupted swim arno take enemy surprise.he turned scene polyphonic chorale pumped bodies: abs, pecs, lats, glutes, buns. know image well, though fresco — thanks first would endless medici interventions — never got beyond full-scale cartoon stage. ink chalk sketches paper individual figures exist. drawing whole composition, smudged looks like puff smoke. vivid piece evidence large 1540 oil painting bastiano da sangallo, saw finished cartoon whitewashed out.all material, scattered among museums — louvre, uffizi, albertina vienna — brought together met. exhibition, organized carmen c. bambach, curator museum’s department drawings prints, works. ingeniously reconstructs michelangelo projects assembling related designs dense, connect-the-dots clusters.this is, course, way present architecturally scaled art, long-vanished things. show close get seeing massive sculptural tomb pope julius ii many aborted iterations; “urgent” commission (years julius’s death) pulled michelangelo battle fresco. selection plans — scribbled paper scraps, spread across pasted-together sheets — facade medici parish church san lorenzo adds beguiling archive thinking-in-progress. rarely architectural design felt expressively personal, moody, painterly, calligraphic.part ms. bambach’s goal, one pursues labor-of-love catalog, revisit original renaissance concept design — disegno — theoretical category, aesthetic ethical end itself. basic idea physical world represented, every shade contour, divine labor so, human level, (or could) art. michelangelo benefited mightily elevation artist workshop drone deity (and brand). later megastar years, people actually referred god. sistine chapel ceiling work disegno excelsis: story creation told superhuman craft.the exhibition’s long central gallery given ceiling, project complex michelangelo gave organizing production team job himself. see plugging away it, scaffolding ceiling, self-caricature drawn margin handwritten sonnet. “i’ve already grown goiter drudgery,” grouses. “my brush, time, drips paint, turning face perfect drop cloth.”in sistine paintings — male body — nearly bodies male — muscle top muscle, arnold schwarzenegger circa 1975. classical ideal — balance, just-rightness — pumped existence. mannerist too-muchness — 21st century knows lot — rules. neither ceiling, later, nightmarish “last judgment,” art you’re invited love. aims overpower you, make feel small, crushed cosmic history. viewers find experience thrill. i’ve always found off-putting.it’s drawings start feel close art maker. one chalk-sketched titan oddly lumpy, imperfect, maybe-not-young body; he’s sleeping. clearly, he’s studio assistant who’s roped posing end day. mood “last judgment” fresco full-orchestra cataclysmic, ink sketches light, almost tender. one, resurrected dead float space, speck-like weightless, like birds lifting foggy lake.and drawings generated tenderness itself. true gallery devoted fanciful “divine heads,” including one doleful cleopatra, middle-aged artist made gifts young male aristocrats — gherardo perini, andrea quaratesi, tommaso de’ cavalieri — developed crushes. black chalk portrait quaratesi, 37 years junior, somber dreamboat plush lips faraway eyes it’s eye-stopper. several discreetly erotic mythological drawings gave valentines cavalieri who, whatever sexual nature bond, became lifelong friend. artist’s bedside died 88 rome 1564.and city, michelangelo spent last 30 years life, met poet intellectual vittoria colonna. friendship came late (he 61), lasted colonna’s death 1547, seems seriously changed him. encouraged move contemplative direction brought new soft grace work. michelangelo be, often is, visually aggressive artist. isn’t — quite opposite — meltingly sinuous red-and-black chalk “dead christ held mother” late 1530s, great black chalk “pietà” around 1546 dedicated colonna, gave her.but essential ways didn’t change. late career, still workaholic, overbooking commissions, pacifying popes, writing poetry, cooking designs artists (sebastiano del piombo, daniele da volterra) turn paintings. hand mind never still. never been. nearly every drawing met show work sheet. artist makes sketch, rotates make second, turns adds yet another. images given sheet might include bodybuilders, saints, architectural elevations, pornographic doodle, man screaming, verse petrarch, beloved face. genius, monuments made these.
krysten ritter spins mystery debut novel, ‘bonfire’ krysten ritter writing first novel, “bonfire,” shady cover-up small-town america, plastics company suspicious motives decade-old scandal given new relevance, understood genre working in.still, surprised finished first draft manuscript able take in.“the book dark, aware,” said natural, deadpan mode. “but don’t think aware dark read whole thing one sitting.”ms. ritter already shown affinity shadowy, suspenseful material film tv work, playing enigmatic characters shows like “breaking bad” “don’t trust b - - - - apartment 23.”and embraced flawed powerful title character currently plays netflix superhero drama “jessica jones,” detective fighting take charge life tends deep psychic wounds.“bonfire,” published crown archetype earlier month, ms. ritter’s fictionalized dive rural upbringing thriller style favorite genre novels. review, publishers weekly called “a triumphant fiction debut” “pulse-pounding thriller featuring sympathetic, broken lead character.”but ms. ritter said also considered novel “an act pure defiance”: narrative wants see of, featuring female protagonist relates to, made time disappointed acting opportunities offered her.“i’m conventional,” ms. ritter said recent lunch williamsburg, brooklyn. “i try raw vulnerable gross.” novel, said, “was way create something — take story back want do.”the protagonist “bonfire” abby williams, environmental lawyer chicago returns modest hometown fictional barrens, ind., investigate case optimal plastics, conglomerate intertwined seemingly every aspect community.there, abby reacquainted loved (mostly) hated living there, drawn back unsolved mystery high-school days, 10 years earlier, group teenage tormentors beset unexplained sickness one mean-girl rivals went missing.ms. ritter, 35, came age small borough shickshinny, pa., said ambition bring life “twisted backwoods” setting “the party go friday night bonfire,” “the district magistrate putting people juvie he’s smoking weed kids weekends.”some evocative passages “bonfire” abby’s awkward return barrens, town thought outran. there, ms. ritter writes, beauty works “by sidling least expect it” unappealing childhood home “seems rush toward way around. like it’s eager get inside. like it’s waiting.”ms. ritter high-school experience brutal abby’s but, said, “i understand feelings outcast loner.”in early teens, came shickshinny child raised divorced mother, traits said made prominent target whispers rumors. “at time, i’m from, nobody got divorced yet,” said, “so everybody like: ‘psst, psst, psst.’”by time graduated high school, modeling extensively new york, tokyo milan, craving work actor, producer musician.she since found opportunities shows like “breaking bad” teenage noir “veronica mars,” well projects developed production company, silent machine.gren wells, screenwriter, director friend ms. ritter’s, described “psychotically driven, best way.”“in industry, self-starter make career,” ms. wells said. “she’s type actor sits around waits phone call. create product.”ms. ritter said placed particular value experience “jessica jones,” based marvel heroine, wisecracking private investigator still coping trauma villain invaded took life.“it wasn’t show came out,” said, “ real women street would tell ‘jessica jones’ changed lives — helped deal past sexual trauma.”after several interactions, ms. ritter said, “i started think different terms. made want even better. made want give all.”ms. ritter already committed playing jessica jones character another netflix series, “the defenders,” waited start shooting, dismayed film roles offered meantime: sundry strippers wives husbands “like dad’s age,” said.“no, don’t want that,” said. “that’s want put world.”instead, ms. ritter spent several months writing “bonfire” home los angeles, putting meat bones idea originally possible tv series.her writing process, ms. ritter said, “looks like pacing around flannel pajamas pot coffee, jotting things hand.” given day, said, “if checked pedometer phone, probably walked 10 miles, back forth home.”when ms. ritter would run creative roadblocks, ms. wells said, “they would last 24 hours, didn’t time. trying finish starting ‘the defenders,’ hard deadline.”she might allow hours knit take walk, ms. wells said, “and back races.”melissa rosenberg, creator show runner “jessica jones” tv series, said saw similarities ms. ritter approached acting work writing “bonfire.”“krysten really works inside out,” ms. rosenberg said. “she cares internal workings character — person move talk? — informs world inhabit. actress writer, she’s bringing audience experience various choices makes, sometimes incredibly subtle.”what ms. ritter jessica jones share, ms. rosenberg said, sense humor: “jessica’s bit darker, ongoing basis,” said. “she’s one-liner wry look. krysten laughs loud laughs easily.jennifer schuster, executive editor crown archetype, said saw “bonfire” wealth storytelling talents ms. ritter gleaned onscreen career.“she great eye developing complicated, messy female character — kind character recognize in,” ms. schuster said. “some fear, darkness, secrets.”having recently wrapped production second season “jessica jones,” ms. ritter promotional tour “bonfire” exulting sense freedom project offered her.it’s feeling ms. ritter said reminded earlier phase career, started moving away modeling appearing first tv commercials.recalling era, said, “i finally control. it’s about, like, pointy nose? mean, pointy nose. supposed do? it’s god gave me.”
tell us 5 things book: capturing elusive robert frank subject r j smith’s 2012 biography “the one: life music james brown” lived life was, say least, highly visible. new book, “american witness,” mr. smith chose far reclusive subject — swiss-born photographer filmmaker robert frank, best known “the americans,” groundbreaking 1959 book black-and-white photos offered unvarnished look country midcentury. (“i’ve always wished could write songs way takes pictures,” bruce springsteen said.) mr. frank, 90s, integral part cultural churn new york city 1950s ’60s. mr. smith writes “the americans” biography: “robert frank wants connect country,” “he hunts shared identity. also wants profoundly lost unknown. lives street yearns move silently among people don’t recognize him.” below, mr. smith talks first learning mr. frank rock magazine 1970s, “american witness” became darker ambiguous wrote it, fascination one three stooges, more.when first get idea write book?the first time heard robert frank reading creem magazine, 1973 1974, film big argument rolling stones, “[expletive] blues,” guy stones let go road them, bowed awe of, running scared from. thinking then: guy extreme cool teenager rolling stones. 14 so.about five years ago, thought i’d sold book aretha franklin, various reasons didn’t happen. wife said me, want write about? book think sell, much for? forget that. would interested thinking number years trying understand? great question. robert frank answer.what’s surprising thing learned writing it?frank says sued magazine calling bohemian. love that, i’m fascinated that. hadn’t heard started working biography. many us, someone seems like admirable, great bohemian time, drove nuts. needs feel outside definition — least easy definition — received labels, that’s something important understanding him; even funny anecdotal way, doesn’t want explained, certainly cliché. course, wanting explained made interesting work book.in way book wrote different book set write?going in, thought going looking somebody fascinated obsessed america. wanted throw come terms it. along way became clear book much america him, transformed him; america artists, really. kind hardship willing live with, court seek out. came think, would assume still think, artist, creative live yourself, means pay big price, kinds ways. that’s something wasn’t really thinking about, it’s important understanding him, made much darker ambiguous kind book.who creative person (not writer) influenced work?shemp howard. there’s great broken humanity great gentleness, crazy word say regards three stooges. he’s stand-in lots people. see somebody worked within utter conventions — formal restraints, economic restraints — ended making art entertainment completely inexplicable incredibly american. it’s manny farber idea “termite art” that, one hand, hews formal considerations, works within genre set rules; other, constantly burns creates chaos.you see work like shemp best ernie bushmiller, artist drew comic strip “nancy,” philip guston’s paintings, could spend life trying understand something that’s simple direct yet completely outside acceptable frame. it’s getting feeling confusion uncertainty; seeing something that’s beyond understanding trying understand it, whether ever end not.totally coincidentally, robert frank’s first job came america photographer three stooges. touring queens, traveling take publicity photos.persuade someone read “american witness” 50 words less.frank’s connected many scenes moments, beats abstract expressionists modern invention american independent film. knack right place right time, often left without trace. trace now?this interview condensed edited.
what’s tv sunday: joe biden mtv europe awards oprah winfrey sits joe biden interview loss son cancer. documentary explores one america’s first celebrity chefs. supersoul sunday 11 a.m. own. oprah winfrey sits interview former vice president joe biden talk new book, “promise me, dad: year hope, hardship, purpose.” book interview revisits struggles 2015, lost son beau brain cancer still office.mtv europe music awards 3 p.m. mtv. europe music awards created 1994 counterprogramming american v.m.a.s. somehow, though, six nominated best artist year north america. host rita ora, grew west london attempt imbue wembley arena event hometown sensibility wanderlust-driven single “anywhere” climbs british charts. she’ll joined onstage fellow brits (liam payne, stormzy), cuban-american (camila cabello), éminence grise ireland, u2. kesha returns bitter legal battle support uplifting new album, “rainbow.”jeremiah tower: last magnificent (2017) 9 p.m. cnn. emeril, bobby flay gordon ramsay, jeremiah tower, one america’s first celebrity chefs. along chef alice waters, transformed chez panisse berkeley cultural destination, putting fresh local ingredients heart new california cuisine. result “complete re-evaluation american food ingredients, food,” said anthony bourdain, executive producer documentary. film chronicles mr. tower’s creation immensely popular restaurant stars, disappearance spotlight, subsequent return tavern green.madam secretary 10 p.m. cbs. secretary state elizabeth mccord, played mettle téa leoni, refuses negotiate terrorists release captured cia agent. elizabeth tries support daughter stevie difficult time.amc visionaries: robert kirkman’s secret history comics 11 p.m. amc. robert kirkman, creative mastermind behind “the walking dead” comic book series, moving onto next apocalypse: recently announced new series, “oblivion song,” centers alien-related catastrophe philadelphia. two-part special, looks back transformations evolutions comic book world, interviews luminaries like stan lee, patty jenkins, j.k. simmons michelle rodriguez.star trek: discovery cbs access. latest “star trek” reboot set decade original series; taken darker tone previous iterations, centers first officer michael burnham (sonequa martin-green). “the series’ promising innovation making protagonist crew’s captain outsider,” james poniewozik wrote new york times. sunday’s episode last fall.
ellen page says brett ratner made comment outing ellen page become one latest actors share story sexual harassment, accusing director producer brett ratner suggesting crudely another woman sex ms. page “to make realize she’s gay.”ms. page, 30, known films including “juno,” “inception” “to rome love,” said facebook post friday mr. ratner made comment, 18 yet come lesbian. came 2014.mr. ratner, whose films include “the revenant” “rush hour,” facing several allegations sexual misconduct. nov. 1, los angeles times reported six women said mr. ratner sexually harassed assaulted them.ms. page said mr. ratner made comment, cast event 2006 movie “x-men: last stand,” looked feet. “i felt violated happened,” said, adding one, including herself, spoke defense.another actor, anna paquin, said twitter friday comment made. “i stand you,” added, tagging ms. page.“if can’t think glaringly obvious reason remained silent,” ms. paquin said subsequent post, “then perhaps you’ve forgotten i’ve victim grooming industry since hit puberty.”in addition allegations mr. ratner reported los angeles times, another woman, melanie kohler, said facebook post oct. 18 mr. ratner raped her. took post phone call martin singer, lawyer mr. ratner.mr. ratner went file defamation lawsuit ms. kohler said post “entirely false, fabricated fictional.”in statement new york times regarding allegations, mr. singer said mr. ratner “are confident name cleared current media frenzy dies people objectively evaluate nature claims.” mr. singer respond immediately emailed request comment saturday ms. page’s allegations.ms. page’s lengthy post accusation mr. ratner.“the behavior i’m describing ubiquitous,” wrote. “they (abusers), want feel small, make insecure, make feel like indebted them, actions blame unwelcome advances.”she recalled touched assaulted least two men 16, said regretted working director woody allen, also accused abuse.ms. page, developed produced “gaycation,” documentary series traveled around world meeting lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender people, called violence women “epidemic,” post touched homophobia, privilege, victimization white supremacy.“let’s remember epidemic violence women society disproportionately affects low income women, particularly women color, trans queer women indigenous women, silenced economic circumstances profound mistrust justice system acquits guilty face overwhelming evidence continues oppress people color,” wrote, adding privilege wealth platform speak out.a representative ms. page said available comment.many women men come forward allegations sexual misconduct said inspired others made similar claims, including celebrities made use public platforms people across range industries — including technology, fashion food service — sharing stories harassment social media using hashtag #metoo.mr. ratner one long line prominent men accused sexual misconduct, harassment assault recent months. others include producer harvey weinstein, director james toback, npr president former new york times editor michael oreskes comedian louis c. k.“i grateful anyone everyone speaks abuse trauma suffered,” ms. page wrote friday. “you breaking silence. revolution.”
lyric opera chicago offers theatrical ‘die walküre’ chicago — many productions wagner’s “die walküre” stage “ride valkyries” scene rowdy reunion. see eight valkyrie sisters, arrive flying steeds, assemble mountaintop greet one another giddily.of course, warrior maidens weighty responsibilities. command father, wotan, must bring bodies fallen heroes valhalla, revive them, press service defending fortress gods. that’s director david pountney emphasizes theatrical new production “die walküre” lyric opera chicago, second installment company’s complete “ring” cycle, began last season new “das rheingold.” attended friday’s performance.in staging, bloodied bodies fallen everywhere: hanging like corpses huge rope net back stage; lying limp surgical tables; stuffed body bags tethered horses valkyries, deposit thud ground. place combination sweatshop emergency ward. grind become routine boisterous, singing valkyries, crimson-red work dresses, sponge dead bodies, cleanse limbs water hoses, try slap awake.their flying steeds become metal horses long-armed cranes rise fall roll wheels — operated visible crew stagehands. conceit mr. pountney’s “ring” involves behind-the-scenes look performing troupe presenting show old theater. see mechanics stage tricks.there resonance concept. stories old myths legends, including wagner’s “ring” operas, told many times before. watching players tell one again.the production full entertaining touches striking imagery. mr. pountney particular interpretive take wagner’s work, didn’t see it; true “rheingold.” staging certainly theatrical, mr. pountney lays story clearly.he also excels drawing compellingly acted performances strong cast, starting soprano christine goerke, arresting brünnhilde. time since first staged brünnhilde toronto early 2015 ms. goerke made role own. (she sing metropolitan opera revives robert lepage’s “ring” next season.) singing friday sumptuous, powerful exciting surprise. valkyrie war cries rang steely brilliance; frantic pleas sisters protect wotan’s wrath tremulous intensity. brought disarming vulnerability moments feisty brünnhilde caught emotional confusion, especially long scene act ii wotan unburdens favorite child tells whole sorry saga mistakes made trying gain power.the bass-baritone eric owens magnificent wotan. first crack role came last season lyric opera’s “rheingold.” though performance dignity vigor, vocally sounded little underpowered.that problem friday’s “walküre.” stentorian voice crisp diction, sent wotan’s phrases soaring house. god’s dilemma, way enslaved himself, tells brünnhilde, finagling covenants supposed enforce, came achingly heartbreaking scene. presented here, wotan wife, fricka (the rich-voiced mezzo-soprano tanja ariane baumgartner), could wealthy robber baron late 19th century entitled-acting spouse.if appealing tenor brandon jovanovich lacked little vocal heft siegmund, sang burnished sound deep feeling, conveyed sadness rootless young person even know he’s demigod, son wotan. impressive soprano elisabet strid, sieglinde, sang radiant, focused sound poignant expressive shadings. mr. jovanovich profoundly moving act long-separated twins realize connection fall helplessly love.mr. pountney made bad call staging sieglinde’s bullying husband hunding (the bass anger menacing performance) chain tree hut he’s away. physical restraint keeps miserable sieglinde abusive marriage. terrified. hunding also beaten down, made feel like powerless nobody.andrew davis conducted uncommonly warm flowing performance wagner’s score — almost much so. stretches subdued passages, beauty playing, lost suspense tension. episodes high drama plenty vigor clarity. perhaps restraint mr. davis brought bear balanced theatricality staging good effect.
bbc show starring ed westwick postponed amid rape allegations bbc announced postponing debut new thriller, agatha christie adaptation starring ed westwick, said production disrupted another series starring actor, two women past week accused rape.“these serious allegations ed westwick strenuously denied,” bbc said statement friday. broadcaster added “is making judgment,” said “until matters resolved,” drama “ordeal innocence” would appear television.the show set air britain part bbc’s christmas programming later expected become available amazon united states.mr. westwick, best known portraying chuck bass “gossip girl,” also starring series “white gold,” bbc comedy available netflix.“the independent production company making ‘white gold’ informed us ed westwick paused filming deals allegations,” bbc said.mr. westwick vehemently denied accusations social media. publicist could immediately reached comment.kristina cohen, first two women come forward, said facebook monday mr. westwick raped three years ago dating friend producer.“it nightmare, days following weren’t better,” wrote. “the producer put blame me, telling active participant. telling can’t say anything ed people come me, destroy me, could forget acting career.”the los angeles police department began investigating accusation ms. cohen filed police report tuesday named mr. westwick, said officer drake madison, spokesman department.mr. westwick said tuesday posts twitter instagram know ms. cohen.“i never forced manner, woman,” added. “i certainly never committed rape.”the second woman, aurélie wynn, said facebook mr. westwick raped august 2014. posted story wednesday, clarified details friday.mr. westwick denied allegations thursday, said “disheartening sad” people would suggest “had anything vile horrific conduct.”he added: “i absolutely not, cooperating authorities clear name soon possible.”
taylor swift’s first mention times humbly hinted come friday launch day “reputation,” sixth studio album pop singer taylor swift.the monthslong rollout — album’s first single, “look made do,” released august — created anticipation record social media custom emoji even created twitter mentions album.it’s incredibly different world one ms. swift first encountered release first record.on oct. 22, 2006, new york times pop music critic kelefa sanneh included song “tim mcgraw” playlist recommendations — would ms. swift’s first mention times. 145-word item wedged review mid-aught reggae act da’ville stephen mcgregor (complete link myspace page) mention “hummable” work short-lived blink-182 spinoff act plus-44. full text ms. swift’s first mention times:the blurb caught ms. swift’s career taking flight. single, first, released four months earlier. self-titled first album — went certified platinum — would released two days later. announced new opener fall’s rascal flatts tour.both everything changed, nothing changed since brief mention, called “brazen enough” name single country megastar.but past 11 years, mr. sanneh called “lightweight ode seasonal love,” ms. swift become one best-selling artists time, 10 grammy wins 29 nominations.now bold pop star begins again, yet another clean slate. reviewing ms. swift’s new release, times critic jon caramanica called “bombastic, unexpected, sneakily potent” concluded “she strong singer ever.”2006 taylor would happy hear it.
review: amazon’s new pilots, end era? recent months amazon articulated new original-content strategy: go “game thrones” go home. wants “big shows,” genre dramas automatic fan appeal, it’s signed creators like film director wong kar-wai “walking dead” impresario robert kirkman provide them.so three new amazon comedy pilots may last breed — mildly eccentric, indie-style half-hours tent-pole names attached. it’s also notable each, different way, centered woman deserves life. amazon abandoning art house (online-streaming division) multiplex, won’t see shows like time soon.this alt-zombie story comes plenty highbrow cred: it’s written george saunders, recent winner man booker prize, directed hiro murai, donald glover’s collaborator “atlanta.”glenn close stars bernie, aging maiden aunt quick succession demoted job cashier killed living room unseen intruder. doesn’t stay dead, comes back, she’s new, fiercely angry bernie, awake indignities monochromatic, subsistence-level life she’s led.mr. murai gives “sea oak” (the name housing complex bernie lives gaggle adult nieces nephews) slightly anesthetized, jim jarmusch vibe mr. glover bring “atlanta,” mr. saunders’s rust belt magic realism doesn’t carry force onscreen, least initial half-hour.the jumbled also distinctive three pilots piece office drone dreams social-media star. set filmed detroit, “the climb” like profane also buttoned-up, less cerebral, companion issa rae’s hbo comedy “insecure.”nia, played show’s creator, diarra kilpatrick, appreciates “genius” rival influencer — she’s “figured barbie, sexy living” — nia really wants fulfilled. she’s told that’s white-girl problem, replies, “isn’t martin luther king died, could someday white-girl problems?”it’s easy see collaboration comedian cabaret star bridget everett showrunner michael patrick king (“sex city”) could translate fairly conventional series, even though elements — like enthusiastic sex scene amazonian ms. everett diminutive, chatty, well-endowed man picks bar — push boundaries.the bulk half-hour, ms. everett’s character, karen, works young residents home people syndrome, standard sitcom stuff (even plot involves teenager propensity touching karen’s breasts). it’s biggest showcase far ms. everett’s knowing, tough vulnerable persona, gives occasions sing, including production number buying bra (which is, again, focused body).stealing attention ms. everett tall order, loni anderson manages supporting role karen’s guileless older roommate.
robby robot: ‘forbidden planet’ auction block cast member 1956 science-fiction space epic “forbidden planet” receive sole billing opening credits auctioned. words, it’s walter pidgeon, anne francis leslie nielsen.it’s robby, seven-foot-tall robot towered co-stars literally and, ultimately, popular imagination. nov. 21, part bonhams’ “out world!” sale movie memorabilia new york, expected sale price low- mid-seven figures.as opposed “maschinenmensch” “metropolis” (1927) gort “the day earth stood still” (1951), robby represented breakthrough mechanical personality. though vaguely menacing, mixed readily humans. voice, provided postproduction marvin miller, stentorian yet conversational.and looks unforgettable. bowling-ball-shaped legs, whirling clattering chest head components (topped clear, bottlenose skullcap), blue neon tubing lit spoke made instant classic. “forbidden planet,” robby appeared “the twilight zone,” “the addams family,” “lost space,” “hazel,” “columbo” elsewhere. also inspired bevy toys.“he’s beautifully thought out,” said robby’s owner, bill malone, 70, studio city, calif. “‘forbidden planet’ would worked robby boiler-pot robot 1940s.”robby built mainly royalite, abs plastic often used luggage, team metro-goldwyn-mayer designers technicians approximately $100,000. electronics could activated via offstage control panel connected cable, operator inside costume conducted actual movement.“as kid,” mr. malone said, “i totally believed real.”bonhams selling robby along control panel, futuristic land vehicle piloted planet altair iv, original m.g.m. packing crates. studio sold lot 1970 jim brucker, displayed robby now-defunct movie world/cars stars venue orange county, calif.mr. malone bought works mr. brucker “pennies dollar” 1979; since robot resided mr. malone’s home. “every morning i’d coffee robby,” said.so unload now? “i’m age i’m still healthy good,” mr. malone said, “but think it’s time think future. we’re sending robby college.”there also practical considerations. mr. malone recalled someone telephoned ask, “‘is o.k. bring couple people over?’”“and drove greyhound bus bunch japanese people, part universal tour,” continued. “i think people need see museum setting.”“it tough working robot didn’t talk,” said earl holliman, 89, last surviving major player “forbidden planet.” “whenever talked robby, lines would delivered script supervisor, sitting next cameraman. kind awkward.”still, cook united planets cruiser c-57d, mr. holliman forged bond robby robot distilled 60 gallons bourbon him.“he’s friend 62 years,” mr. holliman said, “and hope whoever gets keeps well lubricated.”

