6 million people somalia need food assistance [said yusuf warsame/epa] un definition famine 30 percent children age five suffer acute malnutrition mortality rates two deaths per 10,000 people every day world faces largest humanitarian crisis since united nations founded 1945 20 million people four countries risk starvation famine , un humanitarian chief said. stephen o'brien told un security council friday "without collective coordinated global efforts, people simply starve death" "many suffer die disease". urged immediate injection funds yemen, south sudan , somalia northeast nigeria plus safe unimpeded access humanitarian aid "to avert catastrophe". "to precise," o'brien said, "we need $4.4bn july". read more: dying hunger - famine? without major infusion money, said, children stunted severe malnutrition able go school, gains economic development reversed "livelihoods, futures hope lost". un food organisations define famine 30 percent children age five suffer acute malnutrition mortality rates two deaths per 10,000 people every day, among criteria. "already, beginning year, facing largest humanitarian crisis since creation united nations," o'brien said. "now, 20 million people across four countries face starvation famine." o'brien said largest humanitarian crisis yemen two-thirds population - 18.8 million people - need aid seven million people hungry know next meal come from. "that three million people january," said. arab world's poorest nation engulfed conflict o'brien said 48,000 people fled fighting past two months. read more: 'my children starving death' yemen recent visit yemen, o'brien said met senior leaders government houthi rebels control capital sanaa, promised access aid. "yet parties conflict arbitrarily denying sustained humanitarian access politicise aid," said, warning behaviour change "they must held accountable inevitable famine, unnecessary deaths associated amplification suffering follow". 2017, o'brien said $2.1bn needed reach 12 million yemenis "with life-saving assistance protection" six percent received far. announced secretary-general antonio guterres chair pledging conference yemen april 25 geneva. un humanitarian chief also visited south sudan, world's newest nation, ravaged three-year civil war, said "the situation worse ever been", ap news agency reported. "the famine south sudan man-made," said. "parties conflict parties famine - intervening make violence stop." read more: eating water lilies survive south sudan o'brien said 7.5 million people need aid, 1.4 million last year, 3.4 million south sudanese displaced fighting including almost 200,000 fled country since january. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5354543867001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5354543867001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: diarrhoea epidemic claims 200 lives drought ridden somalia (1:29) pageloadedsuccessfully "more one million children estimated acutely malnourished across country, including 270,000 children face imminent risk death reached time assistance," said. "meanwhile, cholera outbreak began june 2016 spread locations." somalia , o'brien also visited, half population - 6.2 million people - need humanitarian assistance protection, including 2.9 million risk famine require immediate help "to save sustain lives". warned close one million children age five "acutely malnourished" year. read more: famine stalks somalia "what saw heard visit somalia distressing - women children walk weeks search food water. lost livestock, water sources dried nothing left survive on," o'brien said. "with everything lost, women, boys, girls men move urban centres." humanitarian chief said current indicators mirror "the tragic picture 2011 somalia last suffered famine". said un's humanitarian partners larger footprint, better controls resources, stronger partnership new government recently declared drought national disaster. "to clear, avert famine," o'brien said. "we're ready despite incredible risk danger ... need huge funds now." northeast nigeria, seven-year uprising armed group boko haram killed 20,000 people driven 2.6 million homes. un humanitarian coordinator said last month malnutrition northeast pronounced adults weak walk communities lost toddlers. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351916554001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5351916554001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: what's causing famine africa? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully source: ap news agency humanitarian crises famine un poverty & development africa
somalia's prime minister announced deaths least 110 people due hunger diarrhoea country past 48 hours amid drought bay region. announcement hassan ali khaire saturday followed somali government's warning last week drought amounts national disaster . "it difficult situation pastoralists livestock. people hit [hunger] diarrhoea time. last 48 hours, 110 people died due [hunger] diarrhoea bay region," khaire's office said statement. bay region southwest part country. read more: dying hunger - famine? "the somali government best, urge somalis, wherever are, help save dying somalis," said statement, released meeting famine response committee. mostly children elderly people died villages surrounding town baido, abdullahi omar roble, government's regional humanitarian chief, told dpa news agency. enough medication treat patients, roble said. drought led spread acute watery diarrhoea, cholera measles nearly 5.5 million people risk contracting waterborne diseases. cholera outbreak killed least 69 since friday, local government official said. 70 others treated hospital. thousands flock mogadishu un experts sounded warning deaths related cholera diseases arise lack clean water. un estimates five million people nationwide need aid, amid warnings full-blown famine . thousands streamed capital, mogadishu, search food aid, overwhelming local international aid agencies. 7,000 internally displaced people checked one feeding centre recently. read more: somalia drought forces children school 363,000 acutely malnourished children somalia "need urgent treatment nutrition support, including 71,000 severely malnourished", us agency international development's famine early warning systems network said. somali government said widespread hunger "makes people vulnerable exploitation, human rights abuses criminal terrorist networks". somalia one four regions singled un secretary-general last month $4.4bn aid appeal avert catastrophic hunger famine, along northeast nigeria, south sudan yemen. thousands streaming mogadishu search food aid [farah abdi warsameh/ap] 2011, estimated 260,000 people starved death somalia. un humanitarian appeal 2017 somalia $864m, provide assistance 3.9 million people. un world food programme recently requested additional $26m plan respond drought. pictures: drought somalia - time running drought first crisis somalia's newly elected somali american leader, president mohamed abdullahi mohamed , also known farmajo. ohamed appealed international community somalia's diaspora two million people help. previous droughts quarter-century conflict, including ongoing attacks al-shabab , left country fragile. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5347480180001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5347480180001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > somalia's severe drought threatens children's education pageloadedsuccessfully source: news agencies humanitarian crises somalia famine poverty & development africa
globally oriented media service, al jazeera shall adopt following code ethics pursuance vision mission set itself: 1. adhere journalistic values honesty, courage, fairness, balance, independence, credibility diversity, giving priority commercial political professional consideration. 2. endeavour get truth declare dispatches, programmes news bulletins unequivocally manner leaves doubt validity accuracy. 3. treat audiences due respect address every issue story due attention present clear, factual accurate picture giving full consideration feelings victims crime, war, persecution disaster, relatives viewers, individual privacies public decorum. 4. welcome fair honest media competition without allowing affect adversely standards performance thereby “scoop” would become end itself. 5. present diverse points view opinions without bias partiality. 6. recognise diversity human societies races, cultures beliefs values intrinsic individualities present unbiased faithful reflection them. 7. acknowledge mistake occurs, promptly correct ensure recur. 8. observe transparency dealing news sources adhering internationally established practices concerning rights sources. 9. distinguish news material, opinion analysis avoid snares speculation propaganda. 10. stand colleagues profession give support required, particularly light acts aggression harassment journalists subjected times. cooperate arab international journalistic unions associations defend freedom press. source: al jazeera media al jazeera journalism
value thoughtful, constructive discussion, comments attack author smear organisation acceptable. contributions offer information clarifications breaking news stories also valued. complaints content coverage sent feedback@aljazeera.net . following general guidelines influence whether comment accepted: 1. personal attacks authors, users individual tolerated, users repeatedly post comments may banned. 2. comments featuring wearing, name-calling otherwise abusive language unacceptable. 3. value robust debate understand people often feel strongly topics debated site, please show respect views beliefs users. polite civil, ensure topic remains focus debate pages remain conducive intelligent discussion. 4. keep posts relevant . post comment related topic discussed, may deleted. comments moderation decisions general comments al jazeera likely also deleted. 5. comments racist, sexist, homophobic otherwise offensive tolerated. difference criticizing government, organisation belief attacking people race, gender, sexual orientation religion. 6. comments incite people commit crime tolerated. 7. comments must english . languages accepted site. 8. keep comments coherent . moderator cannot understand comment poor spelling, grammar logic, deleted. 9. post content copied someone else copyright . 10. shout. writing caps considered shouting web etiquette. 11. spamming flooding . repost message, similar messages, once. 12. advertising, promotion products services, posting web links (urls). 13. impersonating . impersonating anyone (including members) unacceptable. 14. inappropriate usernames . 15. personal information . acceptable publicise anyone else's contact details, including address, place employment, telephone number, email address, etc. 16. accept defamatory comments capable damaging reputation organisation individual eyes right thinking members public. 17. tolerate comments contempt court . means anything could prejudice on-going forthcoming court proceedings. 18. delete comments break court injunction . court orders prohibit release specific information, names whereabouts people involved court case. 19. spelling grammar corrected comments posted blogs. however, reserve right correct spelling grammar publishing comments elsewhere site. 20. volume comments received, cannot review individual moderation decisions alter comments published. content website general information purposes only. comments provided free take sole responsibility direct indirect liability. assign us license use, reuse, delete publish comments without notice. source: al jazeera al jazeera
website terms conditions site owned operated al jazeera media network ("al jazeera"). please read terms conditions carefully terms use site: 1. user obligation using and/or visiting site ("the site"), indicated acknowledgement assent terms conditions terms conditions may introduced al jazeera site time time. access, use, participation and/or downloading materials site, indicates agreement abide terms conditions. al jazeera reserves right change terms conditions time posting changes online responsibility refer comply terms upon accessing site. agree terms conditions, please cease use site immediately. conflict exists terms conditions rules and/or specific terms use appearing site relating specific material latter shall prevail. 2. terms use use site permitted lawful purposes manner breach law infringe rights restricts use enjoyment site third party. restriction shall include, limited to, harassment, defamatory conduct, obscene abusive content, offensive language, distress third parties conduct may deemed inappropriate. hereby warrant 18 years age, and/or possess required approvals consents including legal guardian parental consent use site. warrant fully able competent enter terms conditions abide them. 3. data submissions various parts site allow user information data transmitted posted site (hereinafter referred "user submissions"). include personal information, photographs, videos, audio materials, written scripts, articles, opinions form material. user submissions shall subject following conditions: 3.1 submitting material site, accept provide non-revocable, unlimited global licence user submissions al jazeera turn shall right use, distribute, modify, alter delete parts user submission per discretion platform media whatsoever. 3.2 user submissions may used al jazeera purpose including, limited reproduction, broadcasting, transmission, editting, cutting, reformation, adapting, positng, use per sole discretion al jazeera. 3.3 shall solely responsible submissions claims, damages, third party rights, well legal action proceeding arising use submission material. 3.4 submitting user submission, hereby affirm, represent warrant right submit material, obtained necessary clearances, licences, consents, rights permissions use authorise al jazeera use material submitted, including rights patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright proprietary rights user submissions. 3.5 undertake submit disclose site material information protected subject copyright, trade secret third party proprietary rights, including privacy publicity rights, unless rights obtained rights owners submit material and/or information grant licence indicated herein al jazeera. 3.6 undertake submit material information deemed unlawful, obscene, defamatory, libelous, political, threatening, pornographic, harassing, hateful, racially offensive, considered criminal offence, gives rise civil liability, encourages criminal action violates law, culture internationally acceptable norms codes ethics. 3.7 hereby grant al jazeera global, non-revocable, exclusive, royalty-free, transferrable licence broadcast, distribute, display, reproduce, cut, edit, re-edit, delete, sell modify material information submitted without limitation whatsoever, media format platform sole discretion al jazeera. licence shall limited period territory. 3.8 hereby assign al jazeera (by way permanent assignment present future copyright) rights nature material throughout world including renewals reversions thereof. 3.9 al jazeera shall right final say display user submissions, circumstances al jazeera obliged display include site part user submission. 4. data collection use al jazeera may collect non-personal information computer, mobile device device use access al jazeera online services, internet protocol (ip) address, geolocation information, unique device identifiers, browser type, browser language transactional information. information assists understanding pages al jazeera’s visitors visiting much time spend there. al jazeera uses information gathered enable use al jazeera online services, fulfil requests certain products services, sending electronic newsletters enabling participate services polls, message boards. further, al jazeera uses non-personally identifiable information collected improve design content al jazeera’s online services, deliver relevant marketing messages advertisements enable us personalise internet experience. al jazeera online services transmits non-personally identifiable web site usage information visitors servers reputable third party purpose service performance analytics targeting internet banner advertisements sites. this, al jazeera uses web beacons conjunction cookies provided third-party ad server site. al jazeera automatically logs certain usage information use al jazeera online services. information includes reading history pages view, type content browsing, engagement online tools. information used order provide customised recommendations al jazeera’s online services based reading history. log files also used aggregate analyse usage al jazeera’s online services. al jazeera hired third parties provide information, reports analysis usage, browsing patterns users al jazeera online services. third parties google analytics chartbeat tracks analyses non-personally identifiable usage volume statistical information visitors customers al jazeera online services. third party services may place recognise cookies, web beacons technology track certain non-personal information users. al jazeera access to, control over, third party service providers’ use cookies tracking technologies may used. 5. copyright intellectual property names, images logos identifying al jazeera, associated companies third parties products services proprietary marks al jazeera, associated companies and/or third parties. nothing contained herein shall construed conferring means, licence right trade mark patent al jazeera, associated companies third party. copyright, trade marks intellectual property rights site (including design, arrangement look feel) material content supplied part site shall remain times property al jazeera al jazeera's licensors. accessing site, sites al jazeera, agree personal, non-commercial use. may agree to, permit assist way third party copy, reproduce, download, post, store (including web site), distribute, transmit, broadcast, commercially exploit modify way material content without prior written permission authorised officer al jazeera. 6. third party sites / links al jazeera responsible availability content third party websites material access site. decide visit linked site, risk responsibility take protective measures guard viruses destructive elements. al jazeera endorse responsible liable content, advertising, products, services information available third party websites material (including payment delivery products services). al jazeera responsible damage, loss offence caused or, connection with, content, advertising, products, services information available websites material. terms, conditions, warranties representations associated dealings solely relevant provider service. links site must direct complete content page (and part page) within site al jazeera sites, must viewed within pages site. al jazeera disclaims liability legal consequences (including infringement third party rights) links made site. links imply al jazeera endorses, affiliated associated linked site, legally authorised use trademark, trade name, logo copyright symbol displayed accessible links, linked site authorised use trademark, trade name, logo copyright symbol al jazeera affiliates, entities subsidiaries. 7. disclaimer / limitation liability agree use site shall sole risk responsibility. fullest extent permitted law, al jazeera, officers, directors, agents disclaim warranties, express implied, connection site. al jazeera warrant, endorse guarantee content posted site social, cultural moral acceptable standards. al jazeera warrant user submissions posted site infringe third party rights. although al jazeera monitor user submissions provided site, sole responsibility clear rights third parties obtain necessary licences approvals post material hereby assume responsibility damages, costs liabilities may arise result user submission. site information, names, images, pictures, logos icons relating site sites owned operated al jazeera, and/or associated companies, products services (or third party products services), provided "as is" "as available" basis without representation endorsement made without warranty kind, including limited implied warranties satisfactory quality, fitness particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security accuracy. information materials included site may contain inaccuracies typographical errors. al jazeera warrant accuracy completeness information materials reliability statement information displayed distributed site (including, without limitation, information provided use software). acknowledge reliance statement information shall sole risk. al jazeera reserves right, sole discretion, correct errors omissions part site make changes site materials, products, programmes, services prices described site time without notice. event al jazeera and/or third parties liable damages including, limited , indirect consequential damages damages including, limited , errors omissions, indirect consequential damages damages whatsoever arising use, loss use, data profits, whether action contract, negligence action, arising connection use site. al jazeera warrant functions contained site uninterrupted error-free defects corrected site server makes available free viruses bugs. al jazeera represent full functionality, accuracy reliability material. al jazeera may terminate, change, suspend discontinue aspect site, including availability features site, time without notice liability. 8. indemnity agree indemnify keep indemnified al jazeera, employees, affiliates, subsidiaries associates claims, damages, expenses, costs liabilities arising manner access use site and/or submission user submissions site. understand using site, exposed user submissions variety sources , acknowledge may exposed user submissions may inaccurate, offensive, indecent, objectionable. regard, hereby waive legal equitable rights remedies may al jazeera, agree indemnify hold harmless al jazeera, shareholders, subsidiaries, officers affiliates, licensees fullest extent permitted law. 9. law jurisdiction terms conditions shall governed construed accordance laws state qatar. disputes arising herefrom shall exclusively subject jurisdiction qatari courts. cause action may respect use site must commenced within one (1) year claim cause action arises. terms conditions determined illegal, invalid otherwise unenforceable reason law state country terms conditions intended effective, extent within jurisdiction term condition illegal, invalid unenforceable, shall severed deleted clause remaining terms conditions shall survive continue binding enforceable. al jazeera makes representation materials site appropriate available use locations outside state qatar access territories contents illegal prohibited. access site location outside state qatar, responsible compliance local laws. source: al jazeera al jazeera
facebook.com/aljazeera @ajenglish | @ajenews plus.google.com/+aljazeera instagram.com/aljazeeraenglish youtube.com/aljazeeraenglish media social media al jazeera
parveen khan child. savagely bitten husband gave birth second daughter [al jazeera] parveen khan probably never forget horrific events march 29, 2009, estranged husband walked room bit face act revenge. sunday afternoon khan, 33, went take nap working two jobs support two daughters. daughters, bulbul fareen saniya shaheen, playing outside children neighbourhood. "he gave girls sweets said 'i meet mom inside'," khan told al jazeera. "he jumped sleeping, grabbed chewed face … chewed [me] like animal. screamed hard one came help me," said. khan says husband came intention bite nose off, "[in] society punishment giving bad reputation". cycle abuse khan first spoke happened publicly satyamev jayate, talk show anchored bollywood star aamir khan, premiered may 6, 2012. "she someone actually really inspired lot people show came heard story," aamir khan recalls al jazeera documentary witness: snake charmer. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5633231377001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5633231377001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: witness - snake charmer (47:26) pageloadedsuccessfully hameed, 46, khan's second husband. age 12, family married man twice age, despite laws prohibiting child marriage. born remote morena district central india's madhya pradesh state, khan never encouraged go school like girls neighbourhood. khan's father low-paid worker. grew reminded marriage would mean parents: one less mouth feed. "i remember happy bride. dressed bright red dress red lipstick on," khan said. "but deep down, nervous someone twice age hadn't met before." within weeks, khan realised living man love respect her. regularly beaten. khan married 12 years old man twice age [courtesy parveen khan] met hameed two fell love 16. khan told parents going back husband - decision go well family, threatened disown demanding divorce. khan went wishes married 21-year-old hameed. never spoke parents again. "i experienced love first time felt alive. hameed someone proclaimed love every day promised take care one left life walking first marriage," khan said. within four months, marriage shambles cycle abuse - psychological physical - began. hameed frequently reminded khan "infidelity" towards first husband suspected cheating him. shattered, heartbroken could recover trauma two innocent babies murdered gender parveen khan three years marriage, khan got pregnant first child. hameed excited expressed wish son. "nine months passed gave birth baby girl. hameed stormed hospital looked daughter," khan recalled. read more: female foeticide, india's 'ticking bomb' expecting second time, hameed insisted baby aborted girl. "three months pregnancy, hameed took hospital find gender baby. screamed cried, pulled hair dragged hospital find out," khan said. "without asking me, forced inside hospital get baby girl aborted." husband forced abort third time finding baby girl. "i shattered, heartbroken could recover trauma two innocent babies murdered gender." two back-to-back abortions one year weakened khan year later suffered miscarriage. course two years, lost three children mental trauma physical exhaustion took toll her. "i hated long time, could happy kept mourning lost children." 12 million missing girls gender ratio india skewed latest government data shows female foeticide remains serious problem country. traditionally indian society, son preferred considered main breadwinner family expected take care parents grow old. daughters, hand, expected get married adopt husbands' family, also seen burden due widespread practice dowry. government banned prenatal sex determination monitor scourge female foeticide, critics questioned effectiveness law country 1.3 billion people. 1991 2011, gender ratio fell 914 girls every 1,000 boys born india. recent report, youth india, ministry statistics programme implementation predicts number girls born every 1,000 boys likely decline 904 2021 898 2031. despite tough abortion laws, 12 million girls aborted past three decades parents. incidents prevelant remote areas, also big cities within highly educated families. scarred life 2006, khan got pregnant promised keep baby cost. hid pregnancy husband six months along. "we arguing something got angry me, locked room started hitting hockey stick," khan told al jazeera. hameed kicked hit "with full swing" lower back. "i fell ground started bleeding husband found pregnant. baby girl survived somehow gave birth another beautiful girl." khan demanded divorce gave birth saniya, second daughter, hameed refused. went two half years, avail. hameed kept refusing khan walked started live separately daughters. 'scarred life' physically emotionally scarred life since incident eight years ago . khan rushed hospital morena husband attacked her. surgeons jaipur later treated injuries [courtesy parveen khan] year khan shared story aamir khan's talk show, brutal rape murder 23-year-old jyoti singh shocked world highlighted incidents violence women india. singh's rapists inflicted massive internal damage metal rod resulted death two weeks later. rape case sparked outrage, triggering massive protests across country. protests resulted passing strict rape law, includes minimum 20 years prison sentence death penalty cases victim dies. senior advocate supreme court, indira jaising, thinks lot still needs happen country. "india long way go called civilised. know rape happens everywhere, don't see kind impunity rape see india," told al jazeera. daughters sons, studying respectable jobs future. know take care parveen khan "there general tolerance violence women. bystanders watch women raped. hate say this, [to them] almost like watching sport." jaising calls female foeticide "asian disease". one way perhaps get rid it, said, empower women economically make aware "life begin end marriage children". 'daughters blessing' hameed never prosecuted khan tricked family forgiving dropping charges him. "i told forgive told that, hameed would file divorce set free. forgive took back case him, refused divorce me. threatens every day," khan, 41, said. years mutilated husband, still fears life safety children. parveen's daughters, saniya (left) bulbul, college-going students [courtesy parveen khan] khan's eldest daughter, 20-year-old bulbul, pursuing master's degree business administration wants make mother proud. hopes marry man able take care mother. saniya, 11, khan's second daughter, seventh grade wants work government grows up. "i longer expect society give anything stopped fighting them. god shown way, following that. happy today proud daughters," khan says. "my daughters sons, studying respectable jobs future. know take care me. "i want tell everyone daughters burden, blessing." source: al jazeera author shereena qazi @ @shereenaqazi india women's rights human rights gender rape
seoul, south korea - year marks 10th anniversary korean hostage crisis afghanistan , turning point history islam korea. today, south korean muslims make tiny minority, 0.2 percent, predominantly christian confucian society. south korea opening doors muslim tourists, trying fill vacuum left declining number chinese tourists following debacle launched deployment us terminal high altitude area defense (thaad) system, various generations native korean muslims reflect double identity koreans muslims south korea. number muslim tourists coming country saw 33 percent increase last year 2015 expected reach 1,2 million people end 2017, revealed korea tourism organization (kto). tapping economic potential, country increased number halal certificates restaurants prayer rooms, seoul tourism organization promoting series videos showcasing muslim-friendly restaurants around capital. islam korean peninsula share history mutual fascination curiosity. era silk road 9th century today's modern interconnected world, bonds forged maritime travel passed new generation young muslim koreans, try find balance korean culture newfound religion. retracing history islam korea reintroduction country turkish troops 1950-1953 korean war, al jazeera spoke several generations south korean muslims, expressed difficulties face confucian korean society dominated class, age hierarchy, strong drinking culture, distrust islam.
ara san juan heading base mar del plata [armada argentina/handout via reuters] argentina's navy says launched air sea operation restore contact submarine country's southern coast. navy said twitter friday ara san juan heading ushuaia, country's south, base mar del plata, 400km south capital, buenos aires. enrique balbi, navy spokesman, said last contact vessel command wednesday morning. submarine least 40 crew members board, according local media reports. speaking "communication failure", navy said submarine considered lost, balbi denied report may fire board. "i don't want dramatise issue," said. "we're lacking communication don't know happened." 'we totally desperate' sister crew member working kitchen submarine said one navy communicated family officer. "we know anything relatives, totally desperate," said crying sister, identified popular argentine daily clarin cristina. according clarin, ara san juan diesel-electric submarine manufactured germany. part argentine's navy since 1985. source: al jazeera news latin america argentina
poster support saad hariri seen lebanon's capital, beirut [jamal saidi/reuters] french president emmanuel macron said welcome lebanese leader saad hariri "with honours due prime minister", adding expected return lebanon within days weeks. hariri family expected meet macron saturday france's capital, paris, following invitation french president earlier week. hariri, sunni muslim politician longtime ally saudi arabia, suddenly announced resignation lebanon's prime minister visit riyadh november 4. promising return home soon saudi leaders say fear safety does. lebanese officials refused accept hariri's resignation, unless delivers lebanese soil, alleged held hostage authorities saudi arabia. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5648844231001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5648844231001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > saudi fm says hariri free leave ‘when pleases’ pageloadedsuccessfully "i ... welcome prime minister hariri honours due prime minister, indeed resigned, whose resignation hasn't yet recognised country, hasn't there," macron said conference gothenburg, sweden, friday. "so nevertheless i'll welcome prime minister," added. "prime minister hariri intention, believe, return country following days weeks. it's discuss future don't doubts subject." 'rumours' macron's invitation hariri wednesday came hours lebanon's president michel aoun said nothing justified "detention hariri" saudi arabia, denouncing saudi act aggression. thursday, aoun welcomed news hariri's trip french capital "we hope crisis hariri's acceptance invitation go france start solution," wrote official presidential twitter account. "if mr. hariri speaks france, would consider speaks freely, resignation must presented lebanon, remain formation new government," aoun said later statement issued office. confirmation hariri visiting paris, okab sakr, lebanese politician hariri's future movement political party, said wednesday lebanese leader would likely visit countries heading beirut. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5643890287001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5643890287001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > hariri breaks silence: ‘i free saudi arabia’ pageloadedsuccessfully "it likely tour european arab countries explain lebanon's position current crisis returns [to lebanon]," said. friday, hariri dismissed reports alleged detention saudi arabia "rumours." said post twitter stayed saudi arabia consult future lebanon relations region. tensions iran televised resignation speech, hariri blamed interference lebanon iran lebanese ally hezbollah decision, adding feared assassination attempt. political deal reached last year, coalition government formed lebanon, hariri prime minister aoun president. hezbollah, popular shia group represented lebanese parliament strong armed wing, also joined 30-member unity government. saudi arabia arab gulf allies view hezbollah "terrorist organisation" role arab countries ranging syria yemen. friday, lebanon's foreign minister gebran bassil visit russia criticised groups attempting "dislodge lebanese head state", without naming them. saudi arabia's foreign minister adel al-jubeir said spain "unless hezbollah disarms becomes political party, lebanon held hostage hezbollah extension iran". meanwhile, united states, qatari foreign minister mohammed bin abdulrahman al thani compared events lebanon blockade imposed country saudi-led group countries. "exactly happened qatar six months ago happening lebanon," told reporters washington, dc. june 5, saudi arabia, united arab emirates, bahrain egypt announced cut ties qatar, accusing supporting "terrorism" fostering close relations iran. qatar strongly denied allegations. source: al jazeera news france lebanon politics middle east
harare, zimbabwe - pressure mounting robert mugabe step zimbabwe's president, efforts force veteran leader resign nearly four decades office gain traction. zimbabwe political turmoil since early hours wednesday, country's armed forces seized power placed mugabe house arrest. embattled 93-year-old leader far appears resistant demands step down. however, increasingly running options even closest allies, including top officials within ruling zanu-pf party, look determined remove power. issuing "stark warning", zimbabwe's influential war veterans friday said mugabe, patron 35,000-strong association, allowed stay longer power. "if doesn't leave, going settle score," chris mutsvangwa, war veterans' leader, told press conference zimbabwe's capital, harare. "there going back mugabe - must leave," added mutsvangwa. mass demonstration adding pressure, independence war fighters' association called mass rally harare saturday, urging residents march state house large numbers demand mugabe's resignation. thousands people across political spectrum expected take streets, including supporters zanu-pf members opposition. evan mawarire, leader last year's anti-mugabe #thisflag protests, also urged people participate rally. tomorrow zimbabweans stand together #freshstart https://t.co/pfbncumj6r — #thisflag e mawarire (@pastorevanlive) november 17, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > earlier friday, mugabe appeared public first time since army's takeover wednesday. dressed blue academic gown hat, mugabe attended graduation ceremony zimbabwe open university harare welcomed cheering crowd supporters. entered ceremony venue surrounded security personnel, announced opening event joining crowd singing national anthem. provincial branches step however, political isolation gathered pace later friday 10 zanu-pf's provincial structures passed motion no-confidence called step first secretary. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5649997873001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5649997873001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > zimbabwe's street starts discussing life mugabe rare show defiance, provincial branches' move carried zimbabwe's state broadcaster zbc. meanwhile, private radio station owned one mugabe's aides, supa mandiwanzira, minister information, communication, technology couriers services, friday broadcast messages calling citizens take streets saturday. following votes zanu-pf's branches, party's central committee expected hold emergency meeting sunday pass resolution no-confidence mugabe's 40-year leadership party. move would unprecedented mugabe never faced no-confidence vote similar collective leadership challenge since election zanu-pf's leader 1977 liberation struggle. mugabe leading country since inpendence 1980. {articleguid} proposal approved, put agenda party's upcoming extraordinary conference december. list resolutions, provinces also demanded reversal former vice president emmerson mnangagwa's expulsion party. also removed endorsements first lady grace mugabe demanded step post first secretary party's women's league. military demands seek reinstate mnangagwa first vice president leader transitional administration. 'his time up' along march state house harare, demonstration also expected take place davis hall, zanu-pf's headquarters bulawayo, zimbabwe's second city. temba mliswa, expelled zanu-pf member independent parliamentarian, said mugabe refused step down, motion pass no-confidence vote would put parliament next sitting tuesday. "he old man, sick state shock needs digest news never imagined day would come," mliswa told al jazeera. "he longer resist, know time up." mediation talks resolve political crisis currently taking place zimbabwe botswana southern african development community expected hold extraordinary meeting. follow tendai twitter instagram @i_amten . source: al jazeera news africa zimbabwe robert mugabe politics
major-general sb moyo made announcement army takeover state broadcaster zbc [reuters] zimbabwe 's major general sb moyo, chief staff logistics, made following speech national television military seized blocked access government offices : "following address made november 13, 2017, believe main broadcaster, zimbabwe broadcasting corporation herald directed publicize, situation country moved another level. firstly, wish assure nation excellency president republic zimbabwe, commander-in-chief zimbabwe defence forces, comrade rg mugabe, family safe sound security guaranteed. "we targeting criminals around committing crimes causing social economic suffering country order bring justice. "as soon accomplished mission, expect situation return normalcy. civil servants, aware, plan individuals influence current purging taking place political sphere civil service. act injustice intend protect every one that. "to judiciary, measures way intended assure independent arm state able exercise independent authority without fear obstructed case group individuals. {articleguid} "to members parliament, legislative role paramount importance peace stability country desire dispensation created allows serve respective political constituencies according democratic tenets. "to generality people zimbabwe, urge remain calm limit unnecessary movement. however, encourage employed essential business city continue normal activities usual. wish enjoy rights freedoms return country dispensation allows investment, development prosperity fought many citizens paid supreme sacrifice. "to political parties, urge discourage members engaging violent behavior. "to youth, call upon realize future country yours. enticed dirty coins silver. disciplined remain committed ethos values great nation. "to churches religious organizations zimbabwe, call upon congregations pray country preach gospel love, peace, unity development. "to people world beyond borders, wish make abundantly clear military takeover government. zimbabwe defence forces actually pacify degenerating political, social economic situation country, addressed may result violent conflict. {articleguid} "we call upon war veterans play positive ensuring peace, stability unity country. "to members defense forces, leave canceled return barracks immediate effect. "to respected traditional leaders, custodians culture, customs, traditions heritage request provide leadership direction communities sake unity development country. "to security services: urge cooperate good country. let clear intend address human security threats country. therefore provocation met appropriate response. "to media; urge report fairly responsibly. "thank you." source: reuters news agency africa zimbabwe
renderpagesvideo('5650127131001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); machine guns, anti-aircraft missiles rpgs - weapons ready used battlefield. northern sudan, deployed turn away migrants smugglers trying cross vast desert reach europe. using weaponry members sudanese paramilitary unit, rapid support forces (rsf). established 2013 fight rebellion sudan's darfur region, rsf originally part border intelligence. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5601644422001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5601644422001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: us lifts economic sanctions sudan pageloadedsuccessfully "once dealt rebellion south kordofan blue nile darfur, immediately turned great sahara desert, especially directives president republic combat illegal migration," mohamed hamdan, head rsf, told al jazeera. previously known janjaweed, government-backed militias, rsf's approach dealing migrants largely criticised. fighting rebels darfur, group known brutality, accused human rights watch inflicting "a campaign forcible displacement, murder, pillage rape hundreds thousands civilians". 2013, rebranded rsf. sudan african countries signed deal european union (eu) migration, known "khartoum process", rsf started deterring somalis, eritreans ethiopians, well nationalities, crossing sudanese border. often, process ends death. september, rsf announced killed 28 people smugglers clashes along sudanese-libyan border. rsf refused state many migrants killed clashes, any. "the process stopping migrants getting work smuggling happens areas poorly developed," abdelmoneim abu idrees, sudanese analyst, told al jazeera. "in areas, it's hard observe forces doing, especially organisations specialised human rights close by. "and even media, called migrants brought close capital [khartoum] media told (the migrants) 'rescued'." international law violations september, rsf said killed 28 human smugglers sudan-libya border [file: reuters] times, deterring migrants ends placed detention centres eastern part country. sometimes, migrants returned country origin, happened may 2016, 1,000 eritreans rounded khartoum sudanese-libyan border forced back eritrea. similarly, 100 sent back august september 2017. according un's refugee agency, "the forcible return refugees country origin serious violation international refugee law". refugees escaping eritrea mostly fleeing country's mandatory military service, officially takes two years complete, often extended government "i don't want go back," enok debesgne, eritrean migrant told al jazeera camp kassala, eastern sudan. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5486724937001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5486724937001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: fears un's darfur peacekeeping cuts pageloadedsuccessfully debesgne said father prison left five siblings behind mother find better life outside africa. "i want education. i'll stay get help advice person helps others. able go further." early 2017, sudanese parliament approved bill recognising rsf special forces. supposed report directly president omar al-bashir, wanted international criminal court charges genocide war crimes committed darfur. "the sudanese government says organised force bill passed parliament ... government thinks it's organised force play many different roles," abu idrees, analyst, said. "but main question is, forces, anyone control dealings civilians?" eu funding it's rsf come critcism - eu also come fire. "the eu face it," abu idrees said. "when comes issue migration, it's dealing force controversial achieve wants." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5456061893001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5456061893001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: forgotten crisis: sudanese continue seek refuge pageloadedsuccessfully far, eu given $250m signing cooperation agreements sudan combat migration. bloc insists give funds directly sudan's government, eu-funded activities "implemented agencies eu member states, international organisations, private sector entities ngos". however, human rights monitoring groups raised suspicions eu role supporting rsf, even indirectly. rsf, meanwhile, denied receiving support eu. "they (the eu) lose millions fighting migration, that's support us," hamdan, rsf head, said. "some representatives come us desert witness operations offered trainings," added, refusing, however, disclose nationalities. source: al jazeera news author hiba morgan africa sudan
thousands homeless iranians huddled cold late monday, day 450 people killed iran 's deadliest earthquake decade. rescue teams kept search operations dozens trapped beneath rubble collapsed houses towns villages mountainous area western province kermanshah borders iraq. iran's english-language press tv said 7,000 injured magnitude 7.3 earthquake jolted country sunday. local officials expected death toll climb search rescue teams reached remote areas iran. quake felt several provinces iran hardest hit province kermanshah. 300 victims sarpol-e zahab county province, 15km iraq border. iran sits astride major fault lines prone frequent tremors. magnitude 6.6 quake december 26, 2003, devastated historic city bam, 1,000km southeast tehran, killing 31,000 people.
great depression started 1929, us government decided launch project portray country's reality. project, largest government-sponsored photography project, involved sending photographers across country document social problems us. 150,000 photos captured photographers dorothea lange, arthur rothstein, ben shahn, jack delano, gordon parks, john collier, carl mydans, walker evans marion post wolcott. roy stryker, director farm security administration (fsa) documentary photograph programme, editor responsible project. stryker considered many ruthless photo editor used hole-punch images considered good enough unnecessary. decision discard images quick troublesome many. "roy little bit dictatorial editing ruined quite number pictures, stopped later. used punch hole negative. incredibly valuable," photographer ben shahn quoted saying. part working method, stryker ensured photographers briefed well assigned areas sent out. also made sure publications access material. way bringing public attention plight rural areas among social issues. also helped photographers set careers market. overall, 164,000 developed negatives, around 77,000 prints made press. world war ii , fsa reassigned office war, disbanded shortly afterwards, holdings fsa's photographic unit transferred library congress.
catalan raimon castellvi wears catalan flag protests outside european commission brussels october 2 [reuters/francois lenoir] future european union surely doubt. brexit catalonia glaring recent examples irrepressibly dynamic forces nationalism continue exert powerful influence human psyche within european communities. importantly, processes led victory "leave" campaign june 2016 eruption catalonia's cessationist sentiment form part disintegrating tendencies way today's global political economy. add growing list cases illustrating limits idea united europe. likely future europe neoliberal superstate jointly run berlin brussels. european elite working hard long time power transferred national governments brussels-based super bureaucracy, berlin acting political economic hegemon. also alternative - united states europe (a europe total integration without nation states), widely shared idea within certain european elites. project succeed norms values democracy applied transnational global level (cosmopolitan democracy). imperial superstate citizen european neoliberal superstate, life determined two entities: brussels-based bureaucracy unelected hegemon, berlin. dictate policymaking process, nation states - especially situated periphery union - turned "satellites". already seen plenty evidence eu heading way. economic cooperation among european member states revolved around distinct machiavellian principles interests strong influential economic agents powerful state actors drive public policy agenda. anything, [the eu] acts imperial power virtue emergence neoliberal superstate, least regard economic affairs. tradition political cynicism also defines actual foreign policy agenda eu authorities institutions evidenced double-standard approach towards integration secession. opposed catalonia's declaration independence late october 2017 don't wish see spain (an eu member state) split, provided unanimous support 2008 kosovo's independence. matter fact, european community (along washington) failed case former yugoslavia back early 1990s guarantee territorial integrity european state frontiers , clear violation 1975 helsinki accords final act , individual european member states actually played key role destruction yugoslavian state. one ever charged eu democratic political entity. anything, acts imperial power virtue emergence neoliberal superstate, least regard economic affairs. manner bailout programmes greece, ireland, portugal, spain, cyprus handled euro crisis stands glaring example heavy-handed, anti-democratic tactics. greece italy, democratically elected governments forced resign pressure eu authorities replaced turn non-elected technocratic governments. {articleguid} case greece, germany's finance minister eu officials even refused accept outcome bailout referendum. still maintain financial stranglehold economy, securing country's transformation debt colony result brutal austerity measures outright refusal provide debt relief. speaking sovereign debt, germany's debt largely written 1953 london debt agreement. add insult injury, europe's new hegemon refuses give back financially strangled greece loan country forced provide nazi occupiers world war ii. value loan estimated today tens billions euros. cosmopolitan democracy emergence united states europe presupposes merely complete redesign current eu architecture fiscal unity also development new level political consciousness. different peoples europe embrace cosmopolitan version democracy may simply contradictory national political cultures run also contrary emotional community attachment. {articleguid} prevailing experience indicates yet reached stage extending emotional attachments measurable influential degree individuals settings beyond close proximity existence. words, identify values experiences communities nations, hardly world large, although still believe subscribe something called universal principles. moreover, cosmopolitan democracy noble fanciful attachment universal principles such, rather imagined political communities organised empty space may literally require transcendence time, culture, history. words, cosmopolitan democracy work, required application set norms, practices, values borderless world deprived national cultures distinct historical experiences - borderless world located "outside" history culture. cosmopolitan democracy requires transcendence arbitrary limitations. sense, ontologically speaking, course, cosmopolitan democracy global governance comes close resembling pantheism. unfortunately, eu going way. continue accumulate political power expense democratic nation state order extend tyranny neoliberal market benefit european capital. eu economic political project become about, notion united europe serves literally political guide towards establishment superstate rather remaking europe's political landscape along lines federal democratic polity. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. listening post spain's media spin catalonia function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5601030271001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author c j polychroniou c j polychroniou political economist/political scientist taught worked europe us. europe european union spain brexit catalonia
robert mugabe wife, grace, rally harare [file: philimon bulawayo/reuters] 37 years power, curtain surely closing robert mugabe's long reign president zimbabwe . today, although insisted carrying coup, military generals effectively took control state power. came two days top military leader, general constantino chiwenga, issued statement highly critical mugabe regime, declaring failed. statement told mugabe lost control ruling party government ominously warned military would hesitate step take "drastic measures". general's statement prompted last week's controversial sacking mugabe's vice president, emmerson mnangagwa, previously considered leading contender succeed 93-year old president upon retirement. mnangagwa close relationship members military, came defence following sacking. mnangagwa's expulsion brought confrontation mugabe military. however, mnangagwa mugabe always enemies. mnangagwa, younger man relationship, served mugabe loyally long time, first special assistant war liberate zimbabwe, mugabe led 1970s, later minister vice president independent zimbabwe. sacking, one two ministers government mugabe's cabinet since 1980. mnangagwa mugabe's enforcer, carrying unpleasant tasks, first state security minister, justice minister vice president. ruling zanu-pf party, mnangagwa was, long time, charge party finances. known loyal mugabe. two men fall out? mugabe's young wife, grace, developed ambitions succeed him. placed direct conflict mnangagwa, waited wings long time, hoping one day would succeed boss. part, mugabe faced choice wife long-time lieutenant. chose wife, immediately brought conflict subordinate. bad situation got worse mugabe fired mnangagwa last week. type military intervention new, mugabe right complain. came mnangagwa humiliated first lady. grace became aggressive treated mnangagwa contempt, mugabe restrain her. instead, backed also attacked mnangagwa fired him. escalated crisis. ironically, move sack mnangagwa boomeranged mugabe threatens cause ignominious end long controversial political career. top military general, chiwenga, chosen subordinate ahead him. yet another instance military intervening civilian politics, although prohibited constitution. however, type military intervention new, mugabe right complain. difference intervention mugabe. past, favoured him. {articleguid} example, back 2002, military generals took political position support mugabe prejudicing bitter rival morgan tsvangirai, regarded lacking liberation credentials. repeated following elections. aftermath tsvangirai's victory 2008, military also intervened, ensuring mugabe recovered lost ground brutal campaign especially rural areas. allowed keep power odds. irony mugabe survived virtue backing received military, verge losing power, pressured military. normal society, people would outraged military takeover. zimbabwe moment far normality. zimbabweans carry burden misrule mugabe regime since 1980. violated frustrated. efforts change government try new approaches foiled. recent years, even once-vibrant opposition become tired started squabbling due fatigue frustration. seemed like mugabe would stay power death. social economic conditions improving. getting worse. country national currency, late, serious cash shortages. unemployment 90 percent. young people one ambition: leave country soon can. conditions, people said change, whichever way comes, good. zimbabweans seem welcomed military intervention. like military rule. rather, form change one-man rule system threatening become dynastic rule. mantra been: anything mugabe. may problems military rule immediate concern. it's something prepared confront comes. {articleguid} mugabe? negotiations aimed giving dignified exit. wife, may spared deference mugabe. happens mugabe's departure anybody's guess. made far many enemies short political career. allies faction also pay price conduct. also became haughty arrogant. celebrated soon, well war over. succession race brutal caused bad blood factions. now, however, detained. it's important course treated humanely get due process line constitution. faction power likely choose vengeance, making sure losing faction totally completely annihilated. victors, challenge multi-faced: must ensure restoration constitutional order, must heal divided party nation, must create environment bring country back free democracy, ought work mending international relations especially west and, uppermost minds people, must fix economy. mammoth task, would well harness pool talent country's disposal. zimbabwe opened new, uncertain, chapter. need help get friends. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author alex magaisa alex magaisa united kingdom based zimbabwean academic lecturer law. @ wamagaisa zimbabwe robert mugabe africa
nick cave scheduled perform israel november 19 20 menorah arena tel aviv [reuters/thomas peter] palestinian musician living israeli military rule, news nick cave plans perform israel november 19 20 hit hard. nick cave musician known progressive politics expressed support palestinian rights. raised money palestinian refugee children, called military embargo imposed israel written support activists shut israeli arms factory uk. makes harder accept scheduled violate boycott call made palestinian civil society responding renowned figures around world, including roger waters, mike leigh, thurston moore angela davis, urged refrain performing tel aviv. regardless politics best intentions, performance would help israel present open vibrant society cover decades-old oppression us palestinians suffering under. performance would also allow israel think world continue business usual subjugates millions us denies basic human rights. it's secret israel systematically uses performances artists normalise racist, discriminatory system oppresses me, loved ones every palestinian. musicians may assert "art transcends politics" performances help people "heal" come together, one need look back radiohead's recent performance tel aviv see gleefully celebrated israel's extreme, right-wing government propaganda coup. nick cave's concert tel aviv scheduled take place miles away israeli military rules 2.5 million palestinians living military occupation half century now. would take place miles away devastating, 10-year israeli siege nearly two million palestinians trapped gaza , land majority palestinians driven turned refugees israel's establishment, denied right return homes simply jewish. {articleguid} whether international artists choose respect palestinian picket line cross perform tel aviv, making political decision. similarly, artists around world generation ago presented choice heed south african call boycott apartheid south africa refuse complicity brutal system institutionalised segregation discrimination. inspired south africa, international cultural political boycotts eventually helped bring apartheid, palestinian civil society 2005 launched grassroots boycott, divestment sanctions ( bds ) movement palestinian human political rights, exhausted peaceful means end israeli military occupation ongoing dispossession people. bds launched put end ongoing forcible eviction palestinians homes make room ever-expanding, illegal jewish-only settlements stolen palestinian land. bring illegal wall four times long berlin wall, places twice high. end dozens racist laws render even palestinian citizens israel second-class citizens best. end exceptional impunity israel continues enjoy despite violating scores un resolutions conventions calling restoration palestinian rights lands. today, performing tel aviv equivalent performing sun city height south african apartheid there. {articleguid} sincere hope commitments nick cave share, musicians human beings care much human dignity, convince refrain crossing palestinian picket line performing tel aviv. palestinians deeply appreciate commitment shown justice palestine beyond, justice bring lasting peace harmony broken beleaguered world. nick cave respects peaceful bds picket line, excellent company fellow celebrated musicians like elvis costello, lauryn hill, late gil scott-heron, tunde adebimpe band "tv radio," massive attack, leading south african anti-apartheid figures like desmond tutu, ronnie kasrils breyten breytenbach. confident palestinians, together growing allies around world, make arc history bend towards justice. hope nick cave continues bend us, rather allow art used service apartheid. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author rima nasir rima nasir co-founder edward said national conservatory music. palestine israel boycott
people queue draw money outside bank zimbabwe's capital, harare november 15,2017 [reuters/philimon bulawayo] come this. zimbabwe's ruling zanu-pf party nursed factional politics point brinkmanship translated internal crisis national one. resulted forced political change zimbabwean people participate yet again. many warning signs began earnest debates succession within zanu-pf. didn't end talking. first female vice president zimbabwe's history, joice mujuru unceremoniously removed post instigation first lady grace mugabe 2014. accusation faced sought replace zimbabwe's long-serving ruler, president robert mugabe. fast forward 2017 stridently ambitious grace mugabe sought repeat actions, time leading charge vice president emmerson mnangagwa. succeeded one week. mnangagwa verbally humiliated public exactly intentions predecessor removing husband political office. within week response called disrespect fought country's liberation struggle, commander zimbabwe defence forces (zdf), general constantine chiwenga, threatened intervene. zimbabweans believed remotely possible, least president mugabe charge. hindsight, turns mugabe longer charge army november 15 military announced "intervened" deal called "criminal" elements undermining "commander chief zdf". army controlling access key government buildings denying actions tantamount military takeover. appears public acceptance political reality many zimbabweans never thought felt democratic power determine control. aftermath unprecedented military intervention, streets harare empty, many people informal street vendors plying trade late hours night. conversations politics loud raucous usual. major cities, including bulawayo, second largest, streets remained relatively calm. metaphoric streets social media busy. whatsapp, facebook twitter (in order popular use ordinary zimbabweans) laced humour, trepidation part muted celebration. dominant debates political change means actions military could lead change political leadership mugabe mnangagwa. whether role military applauded condemned. {articleguid} either way, appears public acceptance political reality many zimbabweans never thought felt democratic power determine control. therein lies rub. lot zimbabweans watching events curiosity belies preference (any) political change, limited regard occurs eventual meaning. key issue zimbabweans debating vis-a-vis meaning new direct role army key determinant political change. many zimbabweans, familiar route political/military impasse would intervention southern african development community (sadc). expectedly regional body already seized matter hands judging previous time intervene, may consider option inclusive government resolve political impasse again. is, however, apparent primary solution initially resided within ruling zanu-pf party, current leader mugabe belligerent ambitious deputy mnangagwa. latter one announced return lead zimbabwe fired. {articleguid} key allies zdf well leading zimbabwe national liberation war veterans association (znwlva), taken centre stage making increasing possibility. yet gone great lengths explain actions statements tantamount military takeover. znlwva already announced seeking recall president mugabe zanu-pf's leadership. confirms fact current political crisis country origins succession politics ruling party, regrettably spilled national domain. people zimbabwe always expected better leadership, content precarious political reality requires, again, external regional mediation. accept lack option also lack capacity democratically bring ruling party account current national crisis. primary challenge charge transition processes occurs arrive new methods ensure happen - either country region. significant however current zimbabwean crisis, first ruling party importantly country, pans out, people zimbabwe remain terraces - watching waiting. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. listening post zimbabwe: mugabe's media legacy function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5563283973001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author takura zhangazha takura zhangazha independent blogger based zimbabwe. @ takurazhangazha zimbabwe robert mugabe grace mugabe africa
canada announced sanctions 52 individuals venezuela, russia south sudan november 3 [reuters/carlos jasso] turns out, pope isn't alone saint-anointing business. canadian foreign minister, chrystia freeland, and, extension, canada, also, appears, ordained pick saints sinners. reminded grating impulse freeland unveiled recently - burst self-congratulatory fanfare - sanctions 52 foreigners canada deems corrupt who, apparently, guilty human rights abuses too. surprisingly, canada's swaggering list sinners dominated easy marks: russians, venezuelans, south sudanese. names freeland's register alleged trespassers largely unknown save one, venezuela's president nicolas maduro . clearly, freeland didn't feel compelled offer morsel evidence back incendiary claim maduro, scores top venezuelan officials, mendacious, human rights violators. didn't to. allegations regurgitated gospel delivered high fawning canadian corporate media instantly abandoned even hint scepticism unanimously demonised south american head state declaring: guilty counts. predictably, sympathetic news stories freeland's "get tough" gambit referred maduro's government leftist "regime" . that's establishment code thuggish, venal bunch third-world rubes don't share canada's ever-so-pristine, first-world commitment honesty, probity human rights. freeland's revisionism signature condescension greeted, almost universally, broad applause without much lonely note censure canada's so-called democratic socialists, new democratic party shares, least theoretically, maduro's politics. canada continues unquestionably support israel times, matter, cost. freeland went chest-thumping action weeks canadian parliament unanimously backed anti-graft " magnitsky law ", named russian tax lawyer beaten death moscow prison accusing government apparatchiks theft. canada joined united states, uk estonia passing legislation designed punish aforementioned sinners freezing assets banning overseas travel. {articleguid} "canada determined protect human rights combat corruption worldwide. today's announcement sends clear message canada take action individuals profited acts significant corruption involved gross violations human rights," freeland said imposing sanctions maduro et al. curiously, freeland's wanted list international miscreants include senior not-so-senior israeli us officials. cynical, myopic geopolitical calculus, venezuela russia sinners, israel us saints. this, despite marquee-sized fact donald trump's authoritarian regime labelled earlier month "one corrupt administrations us history, one first-class kleptocrats," newsweek magazine. somehow, freeland missed newsweek's damning cover story catalogued systemic, rampant malfeasance generally accepted - even among obsequious us mainstream media - synonymous trump's wretched rule. still, freeland's glaring oversight particularly puzzling since, former life journalist, wrote much heralded book insatiable avarice plutocrats, aptly titled: " plutocrats : rise new global super rich." oh well, freeland's stupefying stupour is, suppose, reflection institutional expectation canada's top diplomat slavishly curry favour well-heeled western powerbrokers vigorously excoriated. freeland remembers, doubt, american plutocrats, turned "statesmen," intimately implicated torture degradation countless innocents secret, state-sanctioned "dark sites," abu ghraib guantanamo bay. {articleguid} yet, none architects crimes ever sanctioned canada, preening human rights champion, chrystia freeland. course, freeland's recurring bout amnesia blindness extends, well, israel's long, exhaustively documented history egregious human rights offences. like boss, justin trudeau, freeland mute israeli military enthusiastically engaged amounted murderous turkey shoot gaza 2014 explicit behest political masters issued grotesque orders comfortably tel aviv. israeli invasion's final, inhumane death toll included 500 palestinian children, thousands remain permanently scarred physically psychologically. all, trudeau freeland (then, opposition) sided rhetorically former prime minister stephen harper who, words deeds, encouraged benjamin netanyahu please proceed. three years later, wielding authority canada's foreign policy, trudeau freeland remain fused harper's ideological hip vis-à-vis israel. meant canada continues unquestionably support israel times, matter, cost. also meant trudeau freeland either read dismissed outright scathing opening paragraphs june 4, 2017, human rights watch press release detailing watchdog's core findings israel's 50-year occupation west bank gaza strip read: "fifty years israel occupied west bank gaza strip, controls areas repression, institutionalized discrimination, systematic abuses palestinian population's rights… least five categories major violations international human rights law humanitarian law characterize occupation: unlawful killings; forced displacement; abusive detention; closure gaza strip unjustified restrictions movement; development settlements, along accompanying discriminatory policies disadvantage palestinians." six months ago. trudeau freeland's response: silence. november 10, freeland tweeted following message followers canadians: "as mark memory kristallnacht 1938, night anti-semitic violence turning point vicious persecution jews, let reminder must stand prejudice hate, wherever appears." sure will, ms freeland. sure will. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. upfront everything really better canada? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5449485888001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author andrew mitrovica andrew mitrovica award-winning investigative reporter journalism instructor. @ andrewmitrovica canada venezuela russia israel us & canada
cinema lutetia struggled stay open casablanca ticket sales dwindled [nadir bouhmouch/al jazeera] marrakech, morocco - tucked amid myriad busy bars nightclubs central gueliz, hip downtown quarter marrakech, historic cinema le petit palace lies shambles. next shuttered gates haunting mural depicting long line people, silhouettes past, waiting buy tickets. "i child first time went cinema palace [in 1970s]," local cinephile brahim ikbi tells al jazeera, air nostalgia. "i passionate going movies used absent school. always avoided fridays sundays - days artisans didn't work, cinemas overcrowded ... [cinema culture] big deal. rituals; used shave wear best clothes." days, film programmes hung city walls, cine-clubs tens thousands members, even poorest neighbourhoods. peak 1980, 240 theatres morocco . period, 42 million tickets bought annually, even sold table avoid taxes. theatres omnipresent, big cities like casablanca small mountain towns like ouezzane midelt. today, however, world gone. 29 theatres still operation film caravans longer serving rural areas, morocco's cinema culture disappeared. cinema le petit palace, art deco building constructed morocco's colonial period, suffered least one attempt complete destruction real estate company. attempt stopped activists group save cinemas morocco, lobbies restoration country's movie theatres. rise new media according 2007 study mandated centre cinematographique marocain (ccm), state body controls morocco's film industry, 1994 2005, cinema attendance declined 77 percent, ticket receipts 42 percent, screenings 27 percent active distributors 56 percent. proliferation satellite television pirated dvds contributed decline, study found. lamyaa achaary, cinephile sociology student rabat, says generation become less interested seeing films theatre. "in context hyper-consumption, people less time see films. there's much access films series' online," tells al jazeera. "cinemas need consider forms, don't disappear forever. theatres quality expensive - barely even accessible middle class. it's easier go torrent download it." although ccm allocates funds renovation old cinemas, money gone theatres downtown tourist areas. theatres working-class areas, small cities towns failed benefit aid. "there access culture poor," achaary says. failure state policy increasing social inequality decreased purchasing power, decline cinemas morocco mirrored country's increasingly neo-liberal economic policies. height theatre epoch, moroccan state placed high value "national industries," including film, prescribing $1.8m ($5.7m today's dollars) support preserve theatres. state took first loan world bank , following historic bread riots early 1980s, fund reduced dramatically, $457,000 ($1.5m today's dollars). theatres became increasingly vulnerable 1990s, state maintained high taxation rate movie tickets. rate 25 percent imposed film still key sector, taxes remained high despite industry's decline, says tarik mounim, founder save cinemas morocco. "i completely abolishing taxes cinemas," tells al jazeera. "if want encourage sector, start removing reducing taxes." defunct cinema liberte downtown casablanca converted supermarket [nadir bouhmouch/al jazeera] ccm continued support film production, allotting $7m filmmakers last year, left associated infrastructure crumble, observers say. "ccm politics considers theatres ancient history," mounim laments. state also criticised putting many political constraints film production exhibition, censorship complex bureaucratic approval process produce exhibit films. one morocco's pioneering filmmakers, mohamed abderahman tazi, government seeks limit presence cinema part due "a fear political films". "cinema priority government," tells al jazeera. "this despite fact cinema pillar culture." moroccan government respond al jazeera's request comment matter. role cine-clubs 1970s 80s, moroccan cine-clubs played major role film education. however, closely linked leftist opposition groups time, cine-clubs began recede alongside political organisations collapse soviet union. "cine-clubs big importance average viewer. allowed able read film," tazi says. today, cine-clubs almost disappeared, many public universities schools offer film studies programmes. although offer courses film production, remain largely focused technical aspects craft. good first step, tazi says, would bring back programme cinema television "give people idea importance certain films". "cinema sector education, entertainment, something everyone," mounim adds. "a cinema strong audience makes strong. right now, it's public makes films strong - it's festivals." source: al jazeera news cinema arts & culture morocco middle east
renderpagesvideo('5649864826001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); united states helping saudi arabia commit "war crimes" yemen, according us congressman ro khanna. exclusive interview al jazeera's upfront aired friday, khanna, democratic congressman california, said us made mistake supporting saudi-led coalition's bombing campaign yemen. "today, believe aiding saudi arabia saudi arabia's committing war crimes," khanna told upfront host mehdi hasan. us house representatives passed resolution earlier week called us armed forces withdraw "unauthorised hostilities" saudi-led bombing campaign yemen, began 2015. {articleguid} thousands people killed conflict saudi-led coalition bombed key infrastructure imposed strict blockade country. yemen facing dire humanitarian crisis millions people die could worst famine decades blockade lifted, united nations recently warned. us assisted saudi arabia united arab emirates "conducting aerial bombings yemen" provided "midair refueling services" warplanes, according resolution, overwhelmingly adopted vote 366-30. aiding saudis airstrikes kill civilians, creating security vacuum allows groups like isis gain foothold. — ro khanna (@rokhanna) november 13, 2017 resolution non-binding, khanna, one co-sponsors, said would put pressure saudis provide greater humanitarian access yemen allow food basic medicine reach yemenis. "that's going make difference. least save lives," khanna said. harsh words interview upfront , khanna harsh words saudi arabia saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman particular. "salman strikes smart," khanna said crown prince, also known initials mbs. "he's judicious he's prudent may things ultimately aren't even country's interest, usually cause war." khanna continued: "napoleon said worse crime blunder, salman strikes blunderer." {articleguid} mbs rapidly consolidated power since named next line saudi throne father, king salman, last june. dozens senior saudi officials rounded held since early november kingdom described crackdown corruption. saudis also faced barrage criticism alleged role forcing saad hariri resign lebanon's prime minister . saudi arabia accused keeping hariri detention riyadh, allegation denied. war words also broken saudi arabia regional rival, iran, ongoing political crisis lebanon. 'strike iran' asked us respond possible saudi attack iran, khanna said us "should condemn it". "we certainly come defence perpetrating attack iran," congressman said, adding "it would utter folly" saudi crown prince "to start direct war iran". us intervene case iranian counterattack saudi arabia, longtime ally region? "certainly not," khanna said. al jazeera's mehdi hasan asked congressman whether us would intervene behalf another ally, israel, also vocal condemnations tehran. israel also recently instructed diplomats lobby respective countries support saudi arabia, according leaked diplomatic cables . "obviously, iran starts say, 'we're going annihilate israel', defend it," khanna answered. "but don’t expect response." khanna said that, view, us "certainly would condone strike iran either saudi arabia israel". source: al jazeera news middle east politics
renderpagesvideo('5649969381001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); manila, philippines - diego swam across chilly waters lake lanao pitch darkness make opposite shore first light. august 4, young father fleeing main battle zone marawi, city southern island mindanao philippines , where, three months, held hostage maute fighters linked isil. bloody battle fighters government forces raging marawi since may, pushing thousands residents flee. "i crying time. always gun pointed me," diego, used pseudonym fear retribution, told al jazeera. "i lost count many times shot beat me." diego thought ordeal when, swimming two straight hours, military officers found side city. instead, however, brought university campus said blindfolded shackled. next week, diego said endured physical, mental emotional torture hands security officers, said trying make sure hostage one maute fighters himself. "they taunted me, saying 'let's kill him.' could hear electrocuting guy next me. beat up, thinking would admit fighter," said. war crimes diego's story corroborated new report human rights group amnesty international, issued nearly four weeks philippine authorities declared total victory maute fighters marawi. report, released friday titled "the battle marawi: death destruction philippines" , describes widespread abuses committed maute fighters government forces - amount war crimes. based interviews 48 survivors witnesses, well local leaders, journalists activists, report found pro-isil fighters engaged unlawful killings hostage-taking, government forces mistreated people custody. government shelling caused widespread destruction city, c ivilians trapped crossfire parties conflict engaged looting, amnesty found. group said "documented variety serious violations international humanitarian law parties conflict". "some violations amount war crimes," added. 'extrajudicial killings' may 23, maute fighters launched attack marawi, largest muslim city predominantly catholic nation, targeting christians anyone could recite shahada, profession muslim faith. {articleguid} took victims hostage killed spot, shooting pistols rifles, slitting throats, amnesty found. report documented least 25 "extrajudicial killings". hostages, daily struggle survive torture abuse hands maute captors, amnesty stated. foraged food, retrieved buried dead bodies, dug foxholes attackers, made improvised bombs. men forced fight government forces women used "sex slaves," report found. many hostages attempted escape, caught either shot beheaded fighters, amnesty said. 'at least alive' hostages successfully fled captors, like diego, often deal government forces, suspicious potential links maute fighters, report found. several survivors recounted shot at, beaten tortured members philippine marines effort get confess members isil, amnesty reported. one man said doused hot liquid. two weeks torturous detention, survivor told amnesty police investigator apologised went through, telling him: "at least alive. don't complain". witnesses said least 10 hostages also killed government air raid. government said 1,000 people - 920 maute fighters, 165 soldiers police, 47 civilians - killed fighting. also said rescued 1,780 hostages. according amnesty, however, government's tally civilian casualties may incomplete. military investigating report questioned whether civilian deaths "large-scale destruction" city government air ground attacks "militarily necessary proportional threat posed" fighters. fact bombings carried military said maute fighters still alive casts doubt whether operations met requirements international humanitarian law, report stated. police military officers among looted ransacked homes shops left behind fleeing residents, according witnesses quoted report. government forces held higher standard armed group fighting, said kathline tolosa, security reform initiative, manila-based watchdog. "the armed forces philippines (afp) protector people state … hold account," tolosa said. restituto padilla, spokesperson afp, acknowledged "allegations" levied amnesty's report, said armed forces still investigating. "our actions marawi conflict guided rules conflict, provides necessity proportionality use force," padilla said. "we also understand manner question use bombings." reparations amnesty called philippine government fully investigate reported incidents make reparations victims suffered human rights violations. urged government consider lifting martial law island, philippines president rodrigo duterte imposed mindanao region may fighting marawi first broke out. martial law set expire end year. human rights group also called local authorities rehabilitate war-torn city quickly possible provide support displaced residents. diego, meanwhile, said experienced marawi left traumatised. "i never go back marawi unless carry gun. want become soldier. want vengeance," said. source: al jazeera news human rights philippines asia asia pacific
renderpagesvideo('5648339353001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); zimbabweans woke uncertainty friday amid reports president robert mugabe refused step down. earlier week, south african state media reported "it reliably learnt zimbabwe likely transitional government" wake military takeover. came soldiers wednesday took control headquarters state broadcaster zbc blocked access government offices, army says military takeover. president robert mugabe, leads ruling zanu-pf party, safe, army spokesman said. yet, official word government mugabe family whereabouts. south african president jacob zuma said talked close ally mugabe, told safe confined home. unfolding crisis comes amid apparent bid expand mugabe dynasty. first lady grace mugabe said eyeing vice presidency president mugabe sacked emmerson mnangagwa, ally army, november 8. opinion: mugabe - wife loyal lieutenant harare, hope uncertainty army takeover key players zimbabwe crisis? people zimbabwe world reacting? profile: robert mugabe? read military's statement full robert mugabe's famous quotes friday, november 17: latest zanu-pf provincial branches want mugabe 10 zanu-pf's provincial structures passed motion no-confidence robert mugabe called step ruling party's first secretary. rare show defiance, provincial branches' move carried zimbabwe's state broadcaster zbc. meanwhile, private radio station owned one mugabe's aides, supa mandiwanzira, minister information, communication, technology couriers services, friday broadcast messages calling citizens take streets saturday. following votes zanu-pf's branches, party's central committee expected hold emergency meeting sunday pass resolution no-confidence mugabe's 40-year leadership party. harare residents urged take part mass anti-mugabe rally poster circulating zimbabwean capital calling citizens participate march saturday "remove mugabe power." calls rally state house say military opposition behind it. "we can't 93-year-old person ruling 15 million people," poster says. tillerson calls return civilian rule us secretary state called developments zimbabwe "concern", urging "a quick return" civilian rule. "zimbabwe opportunity set new path, one must include democratic elections respect human rights," rex tillerson told foreign ministers african countries ahead meeting washington, dc. 'his time up' temba mliswa, expelled zanu-pf member independent parliamentarian, says mugabe refuses step down, motion pass no-confidence vote put parliament next sitting tuesday. "he old man, sick state shock needs digest news never imagined day would come," mliswa told al jazeera. "he longer resist, know time up," added mliswa. 'mugabe allowed stay office' chris mutsvangwa, leader zimbabwe's influential war veterans, said friday mugabe would allowed resist military remain power. mutsvangwa added veterans saluted zimbabwe's military seizing power earlier week. botswana president tells mugabe go zimbabwe president robert mugabe end attempts remain office military seized power week regional diplomatic support stay power, botswana president ian khama said friday. military intervention, political sources say could pave way national unity government 37 years mugabe rule, also presented "an opportunity put zimbabwe path peace prosperity", khama told reuters news agency. "i don't think anyone president amount time," said. "we presidents, monarchs. it's common sense." mugabe first public appearance since army takeover zimbabwean president robert mugabe appeared public first time since army's takeover wednesday. mugabe, believed house arrest, attended university graduation ceremony harare friday, announced opening event. zimbabwe's military said engaging talks president robert mugabe path forward, promising update outcome soon. military also reported significant progress operation targeting "criminals" linked president. mugabe refused resign, despite pressure country's opposition. thursday, november 16: latest mugabe meets south african delegation state house zimbabwean president robert mugabe, two cabinet ministers head military met south african envoys thursday office, state herald newspaper said. photos newspaper's website showed mugabe, general constantino chiwenga; sydney sekeramayi, zimbabwe defence minister; kembo mohadi, zimbabwe state security minister, speaking south african officials alongside catholic priest fidelis mukonori. south african officials photos included nosiviwe mapisa-nqakula, defence minister, bongani bongo, state security minister. zimbabwe opposition leader says mugabe must resign morgan tsvangirai said president robert mugabe must resign interest people country. opposition leader said post-election framework needed guarantee stability southern african regional bloc african union "underwriters" it. tsvangirai said approached part transitional mechanism "if approached negotiate process, participate". tsvangirai shared power mugabe 2009 2013 losing disputed elections. receiving treatment cancer. south africa's zuma: zimbabwe situation become clear shortly president jacob zuma told parliament thursday zimbabwe's situation "very shortly becoming clear". zuma contact mugabe wednesday said hoped military takeover "lead unconstitutional changes government". meanwhile, delegation pretoria arrived zimbabwean capital, harare, find way political impasse. zimbabwe crisis enters second day, discussions detentions regional officials making efforts solve crisis, journalist harare reports . local mediation team includes two government officials catholic priest reportedly involved talks find solution mugabe's confinement . people streets shied away commenting, cletus mubaiwa, 29, electrical engineer, told al jazeera hoped mugabe's impasse army would resolved peacefully. government offices closed re-opened. meanwhile, several mugabe's top ministers, including minister finance ignatius chombo, currently detained army king george vi military barracks. zanu-pf national youth league secretary, kudzanai chipanga also held military barracks, publicly apologised zimbabwe defence forces commander general, constantino chiwenga, castigating general's call mugabe stop purges within ruling party. major developments overnight thursday morning wednesday evening, zimbabwe state media urged civil servants, business owners traders go work thursday. mood thursday morning, according al jazeera's haru mutasa harare, "calm quiet" "some people already heading school work". catholic priest fidelis mukonori, man acts chaplain mugabe family, attempting negotiate "political exit" 94-year-old leader. mugabe insists removed party leadership vote. morgan tsvangirai, leader opposition movement democratic change (mdc) party, returned harare reportedly undergoing cancer treatment south africa. expected deliver statement later today. information divulged regarding mugabe's whereabouts thursday morning. people queue draw money outside bank harare, zimbabwe, november 15, 2017 [philimon bulawayo/reuters] wednesday, november 15: latest #thisflag, citizens' movement protesting mugabe's rule, called calm protection zimbabweans following army's takeover power. "in order see better zimbabwe want, must stand together. never opportune time united now," movement said statement wednesday. "zimbabwe needs remain calm hopeful, zimbabwe needs support encourage other," statement added. zimbabwean lawmaker: army takeover constitutional zimbabwean legislator claimed move country's military seize power "confine president robert mugabe house" constitutional. temba mliswa, independent member parliament, said army took power instability country caused first lady grace mugabe. "for outside country bad news, zimbabwe, good news timely intervention military constitutional," mliswa told al jazeera. "the constitution clearly talks role military terms ones protect national security, interest territorial integrity country. within gambit instability country result first lady usurping powers president. "the people zimbabwe elected robert mugabe president, grace mugabe. military restore law order." harare, uncertainty optimism army takeover streets zimbabwe's capital, guarded optimism concern future dominate discussions army's seizure power. read . au: zimbabwe crisis 'seems like coup' african union (au) chief said political crisis zimbabwe "seems like coup", calling military restore constitutional order. alpha conde, also guinea's president, said au condemned actions army leaders country "clearly soldiers trying take power force". "the african union expresses serious concern regarding situation unfolding zimbabwe," said statement wednesday. amnesty calls army safeguard people's rights amnesty international, global advocacy group, called zimbabwe's army protect rights people current political uncertainty. "it essential military ensure safety security people zimbabwe - regardless political allegiance - refrain action puts lives human rights risk," said deprose muchena, amnesty's southern africa director. "the military takeover used excuse undermine zimbabwe's international regional human rights obligations commitments." who's who? explained who's zimbabwe crisis, mugabes sacked vice president emmerson mnangagwa army war veterans. read . uk's boris johnson: nobody wants see transition one unelected tyrant next boris johnson, britain's foreign secretary, said statement: "it's hard say exactly turn out. everybody wants see stable successful zimbabwe. appealing everyone refrain violence, crucial thing." earlier parliament, colourful tone saying: "nobody wants simply see transition one unelected tyrant next." sadc weighs southern african development community (sadc), regional body, said noted political situation zimbabwe "great concern", adding hopes situation "will lead unconstitutional changes government". sadc called army government solve crisis "amicably". earlier, south african president zuma, capacity sadc chairman, said sending special envoys zimbabwe angola light crisis. angola chairs sadc's peace security arm. opposition member: zimbabweans happy lovemore chinoputsa, member opposition movement democratic change (mdc) party, said earlier wednesday: "it's sign relief zimbabweans. look things, zimbabweans happy stop family dynasty agenda propagated robert mugabe wife." mdc tuesday called people defend civilian rule country following army's threat. war veterans support army, say zanu-pf 'taken back' war veterans met earlier day gave press conference. "we urge robert gabriel mugabe recalled role president first secretary zanu-pf. also want facilitate good proper running political parties forthcoming elections," said victor matemadanda, war veterans' leader. "on streets, people waiting see going happen," said al jazeera's haru mutasa harare. w ar veterans, fought alongside mugabe 1970s struggle liberation britain spearheaded repossession white-owned commercial farms 2000s, regularly claim mugabe betrayed revolution. secretary-general zimbabwe's war veterans association, victor matemadanda, addresses news conference [philimon bulawayo/reuters] 'no military takeover' herald newspaper released special edition, given dramatic events day. afternoon edition's headline is: "the herald: military takeover" earlier edition read: "zanu-pf unfazed chiwenga", referring army commander challenged mugabe. grace mugabe namibia? sky news reported that, according sources, grace mugabe believed namibia. al jazeera unable confirm report, yet. grace first lady centre crisis. read grace mugabe recent pre-crisis feature . namibian sun, english-language newspaper, tweeted statement government mention grace. statement said namibia following "unfolding developments zimbabwe concern". "namibia concerned present situation zimbabwe creates uncertainty conducive peace, stability consolidation democracy zimbabwe region whole." zuma speaks mugabe office south africa's president jacob zuma said mugabe indicated "he confined home said fine". statement posted online , office said south africa touch zimbabwe military. "president zuma reiterated call calm restraint zdf [military] ensure peace stability undermined zimbabwe," statement said. address, broadcast later wednesday, south african president zuma said: "given seriousness situation, taken decision send envoy able conduct leaders defence force undertaken operations, also meet president mugabe [clearer] picture happening." 'it's inside-the-party coup' professor david moore, speaking johannesburg, told al jazeera: "i inside-the-party coup. president deposed. people arrested, g-40 people arrested, g-40 never army hands. it's relatively peaceful far." g-40 grace mugabe's political faction. whether mugabe deposed, moore said: "i don't think mugabe deposed. think plan indicated chiwenga's speech monday night guarantee extraordinary congress, set end december year instead next year. words, election july next year planned g-40. think mugabe see way wind blowing. he's very, good keep[ing] finger winds conflicts. zuma speak al jazeera learned south african president jacob zuma expected speak 11:00 gmt. bring speech, happens, aljazeera.com/live . significant number zimbabweans living south africa. mugabe zuma maintain good relations close allies. foreign guests leave hotel journalist harare, speaking condition anonymity, told al jazeera foreign hotel guests cresta lodge harare leaving. earlier us uk warned citizens harare attending demonstrations discussing president. armed soldiers road leading mugabe's office harare [tsvangirayi mukwazhi/the associated press] flights operational trevor ncube, zimbabwean businessman living south africa, said flights zimbabwe operating usual. ncube verified twitter, critical voice mugabe. "air zimbabwe took bulawayo morning saa flight harare landed ago," tweeted. al jazeera's haru mutasa, reporting harare, confirmed airports open usual. fears economy many zimbabweans, first priority head banks. images sent al jazeera showed queues people waiting addressed banking staff situation cash withdrawals. martin muradzikwa, mobile phone shop owner harare, told al jazeera feared clashes soldiers mugabe loyalists would break out. main branches international banks closed, due proximity government buildings. arrests several high-profile, zanu-pf individuals detained large pursued, according reports. 'no outward panic' al jazeera's haru mutasa, reporting harare, said atmosphere streets felt tense. "i don't think people expected kind military takeover. i'm zimbabwean, born independence britain, i've never experienced kind feeling air. moment, people wondering going happen next." mutasa also said, however, business usual now. "there's outward panic, you're seeing people running away fleeing." newspaper headline: zanu-pf unfazed zimbabwean newspaper herald ran headline: "zanu-pf unfazed chiwenga", referring army general. mugabe? yet, official comment government mugabe family president's whereabouts. uk, us warns citizens harare us uk advised citizens harare, capital, stay indoors amid uncertainty. "you avoid political activity, activities could considered political, including political discussions public places criticism president," britain warned. us embassy harare tweeted: "due ongoing uncertainty zimbabwe, u.s. embassy harare minimally staffed closed public november 15. embassy personnel continue monitor situation closely. @statedept" military: targeting criminals televised address early wednesday morning, military spokesperson, major general sb moyo, said army seeking "pacify degenerating, social, economic situation", denied coup. "we targeting criminals around [mugabe] committing crimes causing social economic suffering country, order bring justice," said. read statement full here. military seizes state tv wednesday, november 15, zimbabwe army seized state tv blocked access government offices. came reports explosions gunfire previous evening. young man washes minibus adorned picture president robert mugabe bus terminus harare [philimon bulawayo/reuters] // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > happened wednesday? backstory vice president emmerson mnangagwa, ally army chief veteran country's struggle independence, sacked november 8 93-year-old mugabe showing "traits disloyalty". mnangagwa, fled country soon after, seen likely successor ailing president, ousting appears pave way first lady grace mugabe. army commander constantino chiwenga said monday, november 13, military would act purges former war liberation fighters cease. zanu-pf november 14 accused army chief "treasonable conduct" challenged mugabe sacking vice president. tuesday, november 14 , youth wing zanu-pf party, said "ready die" mugabe , military threat intervene. unconfirmed reports explosions shooting capital, harare, tuesday evening. file photo taken november 13 shows chiwenga [jekesai njikizana/afp] war veterans mugabe supporters: w ar veterans, fought alongside mugabe 1970s liberation struggle spearheaded repossession white-owned commercial farms 2000s, claim mugabe betrayed revolution. ongoing purges scores mnangagwa allies widened rift mugabes various groups war veteran leaders. victor matemadanda, secretary-general zimbabwe national war veterans association, recently told al jazeera ongoing expulsions strong indication mugabe acting interests wife. mugabe wife, grace, youth interface rally second city bulawayo november 4 [tendai marima/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news agencies zimbabwe
rasmussen served bush, obama trump administrations various senior roles related country's 'counterterrorism' efforts [kevin lamarque/reuters] nicholas rasmussen, head us national counterterrorism center, announced leaving post end year. rasmussen stepping serving three years leader one country's newest intelligence organisations, founded attacks september 11, 2001. statement , dan coats, director us national intelligence, described rasmussen "deeply committed counterterrorism mission", noting "has skillfully guided nation evolving complex terrorism threat environment". rasmussen served bush, obama trump administrations various senior roles related country's counterterrorism efforts. special assistant president 2007-2012, senior director counterterrorism national security council. although served various intelligence rolls, rasmussen intelligence field experience. instead came analysis side intelligence, working way several presidential appointments. also gained extensive experience middle east affairs working national security council white house, especially palestinian-israeli conflict. served special assistant dennis ross, special middle east coordinator bill clinton's presidency. clear rasmussen departure nctc, take place next december, related ongoing secretive plans drawn white house settle arab-israeli conflict - reported regional press middle east - anything it. coordination hub national counterterrorism center, nctc, serves coordination hub terrorism-related intelligence foreign domestic tasked connecting distributing intelligence analysis across federal state agencies. produces intelligence threat analysis, maintains database known suspected terrorists us around world, shares information, conducts strategic operational planning across intelligence community us government. nctc, confused cia's counterterrorism center, ctc, founded 1986, part office director national intelligence formed part intelligence reforms recommended 9/11 commission 2004. 2009, us government created separate cyber command uscybercomm part defence department deal cyber threats mount offensive capabilities well. us government maintains 16 separate intelligence civilian military intelligence agencies either standalone agencies, like cia , part state, defense justice departments. varied constellation agencies include inter alia cia, defense intelligence dia, naval intelligence agency, coast guard intelligence office intelligence analysis, part department homeland security. evolving nature rasmussen believes traditional groups like al-qaeda islamic state iraq levant (isil) limited cyberterrorism capabilities compaed capabilities state adversaries like russia china. commenting evolving nature "terrorism", including threat cyber attacks, rasmussen said recent interview cipher brief "the discipline counterterrorism literally evolving changing feet every day". president donald trump nominates successor, national counterterrorism center's deputy director, russ travers, begin serving acting director late december. follow ali younes twitter @ali_reports source: al jazeera news united states us & canada
belinda osorio hanzman says leave us-born children behind tps coverage hondurans cancelled [courtesy belinda osorio hanzman] belinda osorio hanzman, forced return san pedro sula honduras would mean leaving behind two us-born children. painful decision hanzman, 48-year-old hotel housekeeper living orlando, florida, says would make sake children's futures. began contemplate fate mixed-status family us department homeland security recently announced would defer decision whether renew temporary protected status (tps) honduras. {articleguid} department said would extend next july deliberate. tps visa-holder, hanzman one thousands honduran immigrants living limbo united states . "my oldest knows eliminate tps, might leave," told al jazeera. "i tell fight stay here, go, make difficult decision returning without can’t ruin lives. honduras, future." 57,000 hondurans tps tps form temporary residency provides us work visas 300,000 immigrants 10 countries environmental disasters, ongoing armed conflicts circumstances made dangerous return home. immigrants honduras nicaragua granted tps 1999 hurricane mitch killed 10,000 people severely damaged infrastructure countries. last monday, donald trump administration eliminated temporary legal residency deportation relief thousands immigrants nicaragua, remain protected visa another 14 months programme officially terminated january 5, 2019. administration temporarily extended tps status 57,000 honduran immigrants, meanwhile, able stay us tps visas additional six months, july 5. elaine duke, h omeland security secretary, said administration needed time determine whether renew visa hondurans. "in coming months, seek additional information thoroughly review country conditions honduras," duke wrote memo announcing decision. 'prolonged anguish' hanzman first came new york 1991. worked long hours factory jobs, often unpaid overtime, eventually resettled orlando, florida. secured tps 1999. working unionised housekeeper, position held duration visa, hanzman said tps changed life. "i able get driver’s license, worker benefits importantly felt free. longer afraid detained permission legally work country," said hanzman. "i tps protect me." {articleguid} said returning family san pedro sula, considered murder capital world, seems almost impossible. honduras national average 60 murders per 100,000 people, san pedro sula considered one deadliest cities. organised crime groups commit murder, extortion kidnap citizens authorities alike, according state department. two hundred families forced leave city earlier year flee gang warfare, reuters reported. "i wouldn't dare take 14-year-old son honduras," hanzman told al jazeera. "gangs recruit kids age, harass beat refuse. i’m going expose son that. daughter 10, also target." originally tegucigalpa, honduran capital, guisell martinez flores, 43, tps 18 years. came us family work save enough money build house honduras, said hurricane mitch eventually made impossible return. flores, lives los angeles works janitor, called trump administration’s decision extend deliberation tps coverage hondurans cruel. "this isn't relief us," flores said. "this worse, yes extended programme, also prolonged anguish uncertainty." families fear separation government's termination tps could result deportation thousands people separation family members holding different immigration statuses. according study center american progress, haitians, salvadorans hondurans comprise three largest tps holders. estimated 195,000 salvadorans currently tps, along 57,000 hondurans 50,000 haitians. {articleguid} haitian, salvadoran honduran tps holders total 273,000 children born us hold american citizenship, according figures earlier year. luz maldonado, 33, tps holder mother two children us citizenship. living glen cove, long island, arrived us la paz, honduras, 14 years ago. heard tps extended last week, maldonado said felt helpless. "if don’t press pathway regularise status, left nothing, like arrived," said. "after years working legally permits, going lose jobs." hanzman said also concerned 73-year-old mother. mother still lives honduras relies hanzman send monthly cheque us pay diabetes treatment. seventy-seven percent honduran tps holders send remittances home, according center american progress, world bank estimates remittances account 17.4 percent honduras' gross domestic product (gdp). "without help, without ability work [in us], mother wouldn't receive consistent support," hanzman said. pathway residency edwin murillo, member national tps alliance, organisation led tps recipients supported unions immigrants' rights groups, actively lobbying congress provide immigrants pathway permanent residency. "our goal stop elimination tps get congress grant permanent residency thousands people currently protected programme," murillo told al jazeera. said group outraged dhs announcement, total surprise. week memo published, rex tillerson, ecretary state, said conditions haiti central america longer justified need protection tps. "we expected announcement nicaragua honduras vocal winding programme," said murillo. "frankly, friends [trump] administration." source: al jazeera news immigration united states latin america us & canada
renderpagesvideo('5648735975001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); human rights watch released report accusing myanmar's army abuses civilians. says systemic rape sexual violence rohingya women girls rakhine state. report accuses myanmar's security forces raping part campaign ethnic cleansing last three months. al jazeera's scott heidler reports capital naypyidaw. rohingya myanmar human rights asia pacific
least five people killed kenya's capital, nairobi, police clashed supporters opposition leader raila odinga. officers friday used tear gas water cannon break large crowds cheering odinga's convoy airport central nairobi return kenya trip abroad. odinga, leader national super alliance (nasa), said statement authorities also used "armed militia live bullets" disperse supporters, led "killing [of] several maiming [of] many". statement use unprecedented unnecessary force jubilee regime nasa supporters formed welcoming party, today #resist pic.twitter.com/hp1nrr9vj2 — raila odinga (@railaodinga) november 17, 2017 amnesty international urged kenyan police stop using live ammunition, saying received reports least three deaths, tv footage showed another man shot leg. "firearms used strictly unavoidable order protect life," said bdullahi halakhe, group's east africa researcher. "the indiscriminate use live ammunition totally unacceptable. firearms must never used disperse crowds." amnesty called kenyan police stop firing live ammunition opposition protests [baz ratner/reuters] police admitted using tear gas water cannon denied usage live ammunition. statement, national police service said five people stoned death angry crowds caught looting. "sections mobs accompanying nasa convoy, looted property five persons killed stoning different incidences caught stealing enraged crowds. two stoned along landies road, two next country bus station one along racecourse road," statement said. police said incidences took place officers arrived various scenes, adding deaths investigated. al jazeera's fahmida miller, reporting nairobi, said "thousands opposition supporters gathered listen address odinga return country visit abroad, ending running battles police. "the supporters tried make way city centre anticipating address odinga. opposition leader able briefly address supporters road bocked moving centre nairobi," added. "earlier day, opposition supporters lit tyres main roads thrown stones police." court decision odinga vowed embark political campaign "restore democracy country" called "resistance movement" protest outcome presidential election rerun last month saw president uhuru kenyatta win second term 98 percent vote. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5631780986001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5631780986001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > kenyan police accused using excessive force election pageloadedsuccessfully repeat poll, boycotted odinga, ordered kenya's supreme court annulled results august election irregularities. court make decision monday cases seek nullify rerun vote. "so far, various rights groups say 60 70 people killed protests began august presidential election continued rerun held last month," said miller. "these protests taking place mostly areas capital west country opposition lot support." source: al jazeera news africa kenya
spill comes midst growing protest movement oil pipelines us canada [kevin lamarque/reuters] investigation ongoing leak major keystone energy pipeline spilled nearly 795,000 litres oil onto farmland us state south dakota. equivalent 5,000 barrels oil, said transcanada, calgary-based company operates keystone, 4,324-km pipeline carries crude oil canada us . company said pipeline shut thursday morning leak detected near town amherst, south dakota. "emergency response procedures activated," transcanada said statement. "the safety public environment top priorities continue provide updates become available." brian walsh, spokesman state's department environment natural resources, told cnn incident largest keystone pipeline spill date south dakota. 'groundwater contamination' walsh said leak came underground pipeline contained site, reuters news agency said. "it days excavate get borings see groundwater contamination," walsh said, according cnn. environmental indigenous groups say, however, spill raise serious questions plans expand oil pipelines us. image amherst incident taken earlier today aerial patrol part initial response. updates, visit https://t.co/8ywi1oq2em pic.twitter.com/urntyudvjl — transcanada (@transcanada) november 16, 2017 cathy collentine, senior representative sierra club's beyond dirty fuels campaign, told al jazeera spill reminder "that it's pipeline spill, impacts be". "it's stark reminder what's risk see tar-sands infrastructure expanded," collentine said. spill also comes days decision nebraska whether allow extension keystone xl pipeline, keystone's sister pipeline also operated transcanada, built state. nebraska public service commission expected make decision monday. " decision coming years opposition pipeline," said collentine, explained landowners, farmers indigenous peoples state nebraska voiced concerns. thursday's spill "should evidence enough keystone xl never built," lakota peoples' law project, group defends land rights dakota indigenous peoples north south dakota, wrote facebook. 'very risky' keystone pipeline runs alberta north dakota, south dakota nebraska, splits two directions: one continues towards illinois, towards texas. keystone xl faces stiff opposition canada us rejected former us president barack obama, donald trump pushed contentious pipeline project go ahead. trump gave green light construction work last march, opening door transcanada attempt secure necessary state-level permits begin building line. "transcanada finally allowed complete long-overdue project efficiency speed," trump said time. company says pipeline "create thousands jobs provide economic benefits many communities along route". 2015, elected president, trump also tweeted pipeline "no downside". sad obama rejected keystone pipeline. thousands jobs, good environment, downside! — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) november 6, 2015 proposed keystone xl route, meanwhile, would run alberta tar sands nebraska. case spill, tar sands oil especially difficult clean sinks water, rather staying surface like types oil, collentine added. "we don't know clean up," said. "this risky situation." opposition grows opposition major pipelines grown across north america recent months. often led members indigenous communities lie along routes major energy projects. thousands people, including indigenous tribes across us canada, camped north dakota last year attempt block multi-billion-dollar pipeline project, dakota access pipeline. standing rock sioux tribe said us government failed properly consult issued permits project. {articleguid} february, however, us army approved pipeline's disputed route. british columbia, canada's west coast, members secwepemc nation recently began building tiny homes path pipeline expansion project set cut traditional lands. justin trudeau, canada's prime minister, approved trans mountain pipeline expansion project last november. "we need take direct action order stop pipeline," kanahus manuel, member secwepemc women's warrior society, told al jazeera september, shortly construction first tiny house began. pipeline poses threat secwepemc lands waterways, manuel said, spill would threaten community's way life. "the land provided [for] existence since beginning that’s we’re fighting for," said. manuel, also joined protest movement standing rock, said investors oil gas projects start rethink investments. "they’re going big fight," said. "because standing rock, people supporting indigenous struggle defend lands waters." source: al jazeera news environment us & canada oil spill
salvatore 'toto' riina, sentenced 1993 multiple murders, died prison hospital parma [unknown] salvatore "toto" riina, one italy's feared mafia bosses, died prison hospital serving multiple life sentences, italy's justice ministry said. riina, also known "the beast", held medically induced coma recover recent surgery. thursday, 87th birthday, allowed bedside visit family hospital parma, serving 26 life sentences dozens murders committed 1969 1992. ruthless figurehead, seen "boss bosses" sicilian mafia, advocated killing women children opponents, violation traditional mafia codes. also known killing innocent bystanders, solely put law enforcement wrong track. riina, grew poverty-stricken countryside corleone island sicily, first sentenced murder 1949 age 19. also known "u curtu", sicilian "shorty", riina climbed ranks sicilian mafia, casa nostra, systematically eliminating opponents, including two italy's top prosecutors. 1992 killings giovanni falcone paolo borsellino carried riina said prosecutors would "slaughtered like tuna". riina captured palermo 1993 held strict prison regime designed keep top mafia leaders isolation. head sicilian mafia always pursued clever strategy jail, italy's leading daily la repubblica reported friday. "it riina's obsession reiterate role played italy last forty years downplay idea puppet hands forces nestled within state," la repubblica wrote riina's death. riina's two sons, giovanni giuseppe, also involved mafia. giovanni sentenced life prison four murders 2001, capture 1997. younger brother, giuseppe, sentenced 2004 various crimes, including extortion money laundering. source: al jazeera news europe italy crime
renderpagesvideo('', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); spanish colonists arrived chile 1541, met fierce resistance native mapuche people. never able conquer them, war independence spain, neither could subsequent chilean state, reached agreement, recognising land south biobio river south-central chile mapuche territory. late 1800s, chile began expansion south, sending army clear way chileans european settlers pushing mapuches land region known araucania. fast-forward present-day chile, roughly two-thirds 1.5 million mapuches live squalor urban areas, remainder poor rural communities. country's poorest marginalised segment society, unemployment alcohol consumption rampant. last two decades, younger, better-educated generation mapuches emerged fight people's culture, language rights. formed organisations, arauco-malleco coordinator, demand restoration ancestral land regional autonomy. campaign included armed attacks "winka", white farmers, setting fire homes crops, occupation land, dozens arson attacks forestry companies. state responded applying controversial anti-terrorism law dates back chile's military dictatorship. "the long preventative custody clause benefits prosecution generates commotion society, said terrorism involved, true," said karina riquelme, lawyer many mapuches tried law. burned alive use condone violence minority, majority mapuches support cause land restoration. therein lies problem: chile's 1993 indigenous law, state give mapuches land areas conflict, offering buy white owners. "this encourages violence conflict," said jorge luchsinger, landowner son couple burned alive farmhouse set ablaze armed men 2013. time, law allow mapuches receive land article 20b sell use land collateral, eligible loans buy farm equipment necessities make land productive. long seemingly endless conflict becoming increasingly tense. "here araucania, people feel danger every day. many can't sleep night," said alejo apraiz, lost two timber transport trucks arson attacks. former president sebastian pinera, conservative leading polls sunday's presidential election, vowed elected, would apply harsher penalties hunt prosecute "terrorists". sergio catrilaf, one 11 mapuches recently acquitted anti-terrorism law deaths luchsinger couple, says believe violence, insists mapuches continue fight land autonomy. "the origins conflict must dealt with," catrilaf said. "there mapuche nation chilean state arrived. organisation; agreements made violated. addressed. aren't problem." source: al jazeera news chile latin america
mnangagwa shows zanu pf's party slogan crowds presidential interface youth rally lupane [al jazeera] harare, zimbabwe – besieged president robert mugabe refused step down, amid mounting pressure army former guerrilla allow smooth bloodless transition. military demands seek reinstate former vice president emerson mnangagwa first vice president leader transitional administration. according army statement broadcast zimbabwe state television friday, "significant progress" made mediation talks aimed ending mugabe's military house arrest . mugabe still resistant demands resign, increasing internal calls war veterans army could see mugabe bringing mnangagwa back fold possible end temporary takeover. {articleguid} however, discussions still early stages, according army officials, consideration power transition mugabe's presidential term draws close remains major sticking point refused concede to. mnangagwa, earned nickname "ngwena" (crocodile) youth member 1960s crocodile gang waged acts anti-colonial resistance white minority regime time. moniker gained popularity political shrewdness seen survive seemingly dire situations. lacoste zanu pf faction - aligned mnangagwa named french designer label crocodile logo - seems rejuvenated army's intervention appeared first lady grace mugabe tipped take mnangagwa's vacant post. upping call diplomatic talks mugabe's future leadership continue home region, lacoste youths - current expelled zanu pf members - upped call mugabe step allow mnangagwa become party national president. william gerald lumumba mutumanje (popularly known acie lumumba), expelled youth leader sworn mugabe, insists "the crocodile" must rule. {articleguid} video received 75,000 facebook views first hours posting continues spread via whatsapp, zimbabwe's popular social media platform, lumumba calls zimbabweans march saturday. calls people gather support military action solidarity war veterans' call 93-year-old pass power on. "on saturday 18th november every zimbabwean find so-called robert mugabe square, find there, bring flag, carry it, saturday going make sure support military, done part," implores. allies, war veterans fell mugabe year ago calling appoint mnangagwa successor. step challenge mugabe, former liberation fighters plan gather saturday launch revolutionary council set new vision zanu pf sees mnangagwa taking movement. victor matemadanda, secretary-general zimbabwe national liberation war veterans association, told al jazeera mnangagwa feels it's time mugabe "do honourable thing" pass baton on. "mugabe betrayed struggle years, time go. cannot hold whole country ransom, war veterans, won't allow that," said. 'generals' reward' mcdonald lewanika, political analyst activist, told al jazeera expects mugabe eventually allowed "honourable exit", questions zimbabwe zanu pf's future leadership would need settled legitimate process. points current constitution, mugabe eventually step first vice president would take interim leader 90 days. happen, mnangagwa would first need reappointed mugabe. stage, it's unclear mugabe reinstate deputy, does, lewanika says, ruling party's upcoming extraordinary congress slated december could become victors' party. {articleguid} analyst says zanu pf's special congress, meant "coronation" first lady grace mugabe prior military action received party endorsements vice presidency, could potentially see mnangagwa army leader, general constantino chiwenga handsomely rewarded. "the zanu pf congress scheduled december go ahead, transition process place party 'allowed' elect new leader, make appointment mnangagwa legitimate. "this could possibly result former vice president opting zero-sum transition 'winners' take spoils, generals rewarded," said lewanika. crocodile waiting wings? alex magaisa, law professor former adviser former prime minister morgan tsvangirai written extensively mnangagwa's relationship mugabe, told al jazeera time come oft-reserved ngwena show leadership qualities. "now challenge demonstrate leadership. challenge stifled mugabe's wings, chance shine. comes nasty reputation, must work hard cleanse himself," said. mnangagwa, mugabe's former prison mate, held cabinet post authoritarian regime since 1980 . magaisa describes mnangagwa mugabe's loyal "water carrier" done mugabe's bidding various posts minister state security, minister justice speaker parliament. {articleguid} positions, mnangagwa, trained lawyer, overseen intelligence security operations caused deaths tens thousands people. mnangagwa's reputation tarnished minister state security headed joint high command (jhc), organ oversaw army central intelligence organization (cio). operations north korean-trained fifth brigade army unit cio south-western matabeleland midlands regions resulted ethnic massacre least 20,000 people 1980s. although mnangagwa denied responsibility mass killings, seen key player atrocities known gukurahundi massacres. within party, mnangagwa served zanu pf's chief election agent 2008 presidential elections government served head joint operations command (joc), modified version jhc. dual role, mnangagwa organised mugabe's re-election campaign presidential poll runoff resulted deaths close 200 opposition supporters allegations grave violations documented international rights groups. three-year tenure vice president, mnangagwa tried recast image local business community, many wealthy allies, international community he's seen 'reformist'. {articleguid} also spearheaded zimbabwe's reintegration years isolation international community. led delegations china, belarus, russia, south africa western europe signed major trade deals behalf zimbabwe. diplomats, much zimbabwe, 75-year-old appears man might actually succeed mugabe, favourable deal end military takeover negotiated, popular crocodile may yet turn throne. tendai marima journalist harare. follow twitter instagram @i_amten source: al jazeera news zimbabwe politics africa
renderpagesvideo('5647615682001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); myanmar's security forces committed "widespread rape" rohingya women girls part campaign ethnic cleansing country's rakhine state, human rights watch (hrw) said report . 15-year-old rohingya girl told hrw soldiers stripped naked dragged home nearby tree 10 men raped her. {articleguid} "they left was. brother sister came get me, lying ground, thought dead," said girl hathi para village maungdaw district. one 52 female refugees new york-based rights body interviewed report published thursday. myanmar's army earlier released report denying allegations rape killings security forces termed " absurd " human rights group. 600,000 majority-muslim rohingya forced seek shelter neighbouring bangladesh homes properties destroyed arson attacks since august 25. hundreds also killed myanmar soldiers buddhist mobs. report also quoted many rape survivors reporting "days agony walking swollen torn genitals fleeing bangladesh". sexual violence perpetrated army {articleguid} pramila patten, un special envoy sexual violence conflict, said sexual violence "being commanded, orchestrated perpetrated armed forces myanmar". survivors witnesses also told al jazeera accounts women girls raped locked inside houses torched. recounted stories torture, mutilations, stripped naked atrocities acts humiliation. "rape prominent devastating feature burmese military's campaign ethnic cleansing rohingya," said skye wheeler, women's rights emergencies researcher human rights watch author report. "the burmese military's barbaric acts violence left countless women girls brutally harmed traumatised." statement un migration agency iom said doctors treated dozens women experienced " violent sexual assault " since august said numbers likely represent "small portion" actual cases. "egregious violence abuse underreported" even stable situation, agency said. 'ongoing genocide' hrw report said soldiers raped women girls major attacks villages weeks prior attacks, repeatedly harassing rohingya women children. 600,000 rohingya forced seek shelter neighbouring bangladesh since august 25 [anadolu] every case described report, rapists uniformed members myanmar's security forces. six cases "mass rape", survivors told hrw soldiers gathered rohingya women girls groups gang-raped raped them. many interviewed described soldiers bashing heads young children trees, throwing children elderly parents burning houses, shooting husbands. two sisters spoke al jazeera said raped myanmar soldiers. "the military tortured us," said 25-year-old minara, gave one name. "they murdered parents. took us jungle. pushed us ground." sister aziza, 22, said raped two men became unconscious. two sisters rescued refugees helped cross river bangladesh. hrw requested un "impose bilateral arms embargoes burma, create implement sanctions regimes - including travel bans, asset freezes, restrictions access financial institutions". activists said international community needs stop myanmar military orchestrating "genocide" rohingya - one persecuted communities world. 101 east rohingya exodus function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5640320980001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news rohingya human rights humanitarian crises asia myanmar
erdogan ordered turkish troops withdraw war games protest [anadolu] nato's secretary general apologised turkey civilian contractor depicted president recep tayyip erdogan "enemy collaborator" military exercise norway. erdogan announced friday country withdrawn trident javelin war games, protested another incident modern turkey's founder, mustafa kemal ataturk, shown "hostile". {articleguid} statement issued friday, nato's jens stoltenberg said: "i apologise offence caused. incidents result individual's actions reflect views nato". norwegian official removed exercise, inquiry ordered determine mistake happened. "it norwegian authorities decide disciplinary action," said. according reports, norwegian official reportedly created dummy military chat account named "erdogan", called "erdogan" collaborator. second incident, staffer reportedly used photo ataturk, "hostile leaders biographies" section simulated military event. two incidents drew ire erdogan, immediately ordered withdrawal turkey's 40 soldiers exercise. irritants commander joint warfare centre, major general andrzej reudowicz poland, also apologised turkish government, report quoted nato official saying. tensions turkey european allies brewing months refugee crisis, well calls within bloc freeze relations. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(1954562914001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_1954562914001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: turkey request nato missile defence syria border pageloadedsuccessfully latest incident serves another irritant ties. turkey european countries cooperating issues refugee crisis, security syria's war - situation appears made member states hesitant cut ties. part 2015 deal , turkey received european union funds exchange return refugees turkey, europeans say questions remain efficacy agreement's implementation light rising tensions. erdogan, accusing brussels keeping side deal visa-free travel turks, various times threatened open country's border eu refugees pass freely. eu member states turkey also share intelligence allies coalition fighting islamic state iraq levant group ( isil , also known isis). recent months, erdogan sharply rebuffed bloc, stating publicly country "does need eu" more. turkish government also accuses several eu member states actively supporting "terrorism". turkey alleged eu states harbouring kurdish far-left fighters, well people linked failed coup. source: al jazeera news turkey recep tayyip erdogan europe
islamabad protest ordered clear courts [al jazeera/asad hashim] islamabad, pakistan - pakistani court ordered authorities clear anti-blasphemy protest blocked major highway capital islamabad last 10 days, prompting fears clashes police demonstrators. hundreds demonstrators remained gathered protest site friday, located major entry point city, vowing hold ground unless demands met. "we told clear protest, hook crook," said mushtaq ahmed, top local administration official. "we told enlist services [paramilitary] rangers fc well, required." protesters first gathered faizabad interchange november 8, demanding resignation federal law minister change wording electoral law perceived softening state's official designation members ahmadi sect non-muslim. ahmadis minority sect, numbering hundreds thousands pakistan 10 million worldwide, identify muslim maintaining prophet muhammad succeeded founder faith, mirza ghulam ahmed, "subordinate prophet" late 19th century. face widespread discrimination pakistan muslim-majority countries. pakistan, forbidden referring muslim frequently target violent attacks. political unknown's rise protesters led khadim hussain rizvi, hard-right conservative known vitriolic rhetoric ahmadi community, recently risen prominence leader tehreek-e-labbaik pakistan (tlp) political party. relative political unknown, rizvi's party bagged third place recent by-election eastern city lahore, 275km south capital, held elect replacement nawaz sharif, disqualified prime minister's office july corruption allegations. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5515733081001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5515733081001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > upfront: islamic scholar - isil 'enemies islam' (11:48) pageloadedsuccessfully sharif's party, embattled several political legal fronts, struggled control protest early days, party leaders telling al jazeera want perceived alienating pakistan's largest sunni muslim sect, part rizvi represents . friday, however, appeared islamabad high court's patience blockade, caused massive traffic jams disruptions businesses educational institutions across islamabad adjoining twin city rawalpindi, run out. "we write letter first, respond clear area, carry police operation them," said ahmed. 'why leave?' mood defiant rally, hundreds protesters prepared friday prayers, dozens riot police gathered roadblocks erected around demonstration. "there need worry […] god willing, historic day!" boomed announcement loudspeakers across protesters' tent village. "we ask conduct calmly bravely." protesters sat large fabric tents, raising hands unison chanting time cries "labbaik, labbaik ya rasool allah", slogan indicating solidarity islam's prophet. volunteers manning makeshift barricades, constructed buses, wooden branches paving stones, carried large wooden batons, iron hooks embedded them. "we accept court order. leave?" asked nisar ahmad, 30, shopkeeper lahore. "the courts nothing case salmaan taseer's [alleged] blasphemy either. mumtaz qadri show bravery." 'black laws' qadri , policeman, murdered taseer, governor punjab province, alleged blasphemy january 2011. taseer publicly defended woman accused blasphemy called pakistan's strict blasphemy laws, prescribe mandatory death penalty forms blasphemy, "black laws". least 73 people murdered blasphemy allegations pakistan since 1990, according al jazeera tally. "we face police needed, strength faith side," said ahmad, protester. others struck conciliatory tone. "we stay peaceful long can, want take law hands," said hafiz qasim, 27, electrical engineer lahore. "everything comes prophet's honour, however. police, courts, even pakistan itself." asad hashim al jazeera's web correspondent pakistan. tweets @asad hashim . inside story pakistan's blasphemy law source: al jazeera news islam pakistan asia
estimated 600,000 rohingya refugees fled violence bangladesh [showkat shafi/al jazeera] activists called stronger action stop "ongoing genocide" majority-muslim rohingya ethnic group us secretary state rex tillerson said "broad-based economic sanctions" myanmar. joint press conference myanmar's de facto leader aung san suu kyi capital naypyitaw wednesday, tillerson said favoured individual sanctions military officials based "credible reliable information" involvement atrocities. responding tillerson's call independent investigation, tun khin - president burmese rohingya organisation based uk - asked investigation would carried military refusing allow fact-finding mission ground. "rohingya people facing genocide 21st century. time act. us international community enough," said tun khin . video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5647456034001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5647456034001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: tillerson calls 'credible' probe myanmar's rohingya crisis (2:25) pageloadedsuccessfully according report published tuesday united states holocaust memorial museum fortify rights, "mounting evidence" genocide rohingya myanmar. "these crimes thrive impunity inaction," said matthew smith, chief executive officer fortify rights statement. "condemnations aren’t enough. without urgent international action towards accountability, mass killings likely." tun khin called targeted sanctions myanmar's military, driven 600,000 rohingya western rakhine state neighbouring bangladesh since august. "every day rohingyas killed houses burnt. it's two-and-a-half months since military offensive began still atrocities continuing," said. "we demand myanmar referred icc [the international criminal court] un peace-keeping force deployed protect lives rohingya. also need un-mandated global arms embargo country." {articleguid} human rights activists also lambasted report myanmar's army said rohingya civilians killed military crackdown launched wake deadly attacks soldiers armed rohingya group. ro nay san lwin, rohingya activist based germany, said army never admit crimes rohingya - troops committing past 39 years. "they committed many crimes minorities well karen, kachin ," said ro nay san lwin. myanmar's army transferred major-general maung maung soe, behind crackdown rohingya, another post. ro nay san lwin said "public relations exercise". "this done show [the military] taking actions ahead tillerson's visit." 101 east rohingya exodus function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5640320980001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news rohingya myanmar human rights asia
syria's sana state news agency says isil car bombing killed least 20 people wounded 30 others site displaced families camped near city deir az zor eastern syria. says bombing occurred al-jafra al-koniko areas, located countryside south deir az zor city controlled syrian government. syrian observatory human rights (sohr) said 12 children among total 26 victims friday's attack deir az zor province, isil, islamic state iraq levant group, also known isis, losing ground two separate offensives. also friday, sohr, britain-based monitor, said six children among least 19 civilians killed shelling syrian government rebel-held area eastern ghouta near damascus. another incident eastern ghouta, six people killed government air strikes, according sohr. reports said retaliation government's assault, rebels fired rockets damascus city friday, killing three civilians. sana said four civilians, including child, killed rockets struck al-zablatani al-dwaila areas damascus, called new violation de-escalation deal. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5649892395001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5649892395001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: russia blocks bid probe syria's chemical weapons use pageloadedsuccessfully de-escalation zones created part agreement reached russia, iran turkey bring violence levels across syria. sana cited source damascus police command saying child killed attack al-dwaila material damage caused shops houses al-hamidiya area. fighting forces syrian president bashar al-assad rebels control eastern ghouta escalating late claiming increasing number civilian lives. ahrar al-sham, rebel group positions harasta, launched attack tuesday government military base area. sohr says least 37 people, including nine syrian military officers, killed government side another 174 people wounded 700 shells, raids missiles rained eastern ghouta three days. assad government confirmed military's losses. thursday six people killed shelling damascus neighbourhood. among victims fadel radi, syrian national karate teams coach, died shrapnel wounds. radi injured leaving al-majd club bab musalla area damascus city, sana reported. born 1948, radi prominent karate expert syria since 1970 several achievements name arab international levels. meanwhile, new york city, diplomats un said security council would vote friday fresh attempt salvage un-led investigation entrusted identifying behind chemical weapons attacks syria. council vote 6:15pm (23:15 gmt) japanese draft resolution would extend joint investigative mechanism (jim) 30 days, allow time negotiations compromise. mandate jim, inquiry launched jointly un organization prohibition chemical weapons (opcw) 2015, expired thursday russia blocked us-backed resolution. eleven security council members states voted favour resolution, two abstained, two voted it, including russia, holds veto power permanent member security council. inside story could battle raqqa bring end isil syria? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5611853630001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news syria's civil war middle east bashar al-assad isis
renderpagesvideo('5649953959001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); divide rich poor hong kong hit record high. hong kong second "unequal" city terms income wealth, behind new york. latest government figures show 20 percent population lives poverty. al jazeera's sarah clarke reports hong kong. asia pacific human rights china
renderpagesvideo('5649969381001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); amnesty international accusing isil-linked maute fighters philippine government forces committing war crimes five-month battle city marawi. 1,000 people killed 500,000 displaced. al jazeera's jamela alindogan reports manila. asia pacific philippines war & conflict
renderpagesvideo('5649944990001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); inquiry abuse youth prisons australia's northern territory called closure one detention centres. found says 'shocking systemic failures' ignored top officials many years. inmates aboriginal. al jazeera's andrew thomas reports sydney. australia
renderpagesvideo('5649990658001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); donald trump's tax reform bill passed congress faces one step become law - needs pass senate. americans worried bill presented senate slash number obamacare subscribers, raising cost plan need most. us president donald trump step closer first major legislative victory house representatives passed flagship tax reform bill. bill one hurdle clear: still pass senate. however, bill senate review include steps end "individual mandate", requirement affordable care act every us citizen must buy health insurance pay tax fine subsidise programme. requirement lifted, government saves money aca subscribers likely decrease, increasing cost programme need most. al jazeera's kimberly halkett reports washington, dc. us & canada united states
renderpagesvideo('5649897730001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); water sources drying parts himalayas people forced look elsewhere places live work. new technology irrigation might help people stay homes. water sources drying throughout different areas, team come together set tanks new system help get closer solving problems water irrigation. system consists solar panels set maneuvered towards direction sun. direct current generated pumps water source tanks pipes connect tanks village rest work done gravity. technology come cheap hoped provide way forward solving growing problem. al jazeera's subina shrestha reports ramechhap district, nepal. nepal environment
renderpagesvideo('5650127131001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); sudan deployed paramilitary forces borders curb flow migrants transiting way europe. move controversial troops fought darfur, accused committing war crimes. rapid support forces, group called, officially formed four years ago accused brutality violating human rights role darfur conflict head forces say fight crimes, commit them. "we combat kinds crimes, special forces, like force country. choose easiest method fight crimes border libya open problems forces patrol there." al jazeera's hiba morgan reports northern sudan. middle east sudan human rights
renderpagesvideo('5649999316001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); african elephants us' endangered species list. spite that, president trump lifted ban former president obama import elephant trophies us. remains elephants legally hunted zimbabwe zambia legally imported us trophies, reversing obama-era ban elephant trophies. hunting advocates argue revenue legal hunting zimbabwe zambia actually helps fund conservation efforts, would strapped cash without it. conservationists say decision troubling undermine campaigns stop trade ivory, something us spearheading. al jazeera's andy gallacher reports. us & canada united states environment
renderpagesvideo('5649889468001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); djibouti facing problems poverty spite large foreign investments recent years, making effort welcome 40,000 yemenis moved escape war home. tiny horn africa state djibouti home 40,000 yemenis fled war-torn country. spite djibouti's economic struggle, people government making sincere effort welcome people consider group could drive significant economic growth country. yemeni refugees started camp, registered allowed work since moved capital earn living. al jazeera's mohammed adow reports djibouti. yemen human rights middle east
renderpagesvideo('5649997873001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); president mugabe met delegates south africa head zimbabwe's armed forces. however, discussions outside state house starting turn towards country look like without him. pictures published showing robert mugabe meeting head armed forces well delegation south africa zimbabwe; it's first time he's seen since military took power tuesday night. south african delegation harare help find solution country's political crisis. streets calm people getting daily lives, members opposition said way forward mugabe resign people starting discuss future zimbabwe without mugabe head. al jazeera's haru mutasa reports harare. africa zimbabwe
al jazeera english po box 23127 doha - qatar advertising po box: 23123 doha - qatar tel: (+974) 4489-7446 / 4489-7451 / 4489-7449 fax: (+974) 4489-7472 public relations enquiries: contact press office programme commissioning information, please visit www.ajicommissioning.net advertising , marketing , distribution footage & syndicatios inquries, use following form comment, suggestion, complaint praise regarding al jazeera english programmes, use information help us provide better service please click send feedback link top page. source: al jazeera
achebe, left, former south african president nelson mandela september 12, 2002, prior receiving honorary degree university cape town [anna zieminski/afp] fast facts widely considered africa 's greatest storyteller, chinua achebe would 87 thursday. honour, google changing logo doodle, illustration, portraying him. story: endfragment african novelist nigeria's storytelling tradition . born ogidi 1930 igbo family, chinua studious son evangelical priest. grew listening stories narrated community. love library, chinua completed english studies university ibadan four years instead standard five. 1961, worked nigerian broadcasting corporation married christie okoli. four children together. european interpretation african culture. give african children better quality books, co-founded 1967 citadel press renowned writer christopher okigbo publish children's books. voracious reader, achebe disappointed non-african authors' ignorance continent people. biafran independence . region biafra broke away 1967, achebe became strong biafran supporter. later dabbled political activism. desperate conditions suffered biafran refugees, achebe wrote following rhymes "refugee mother child": unwashed children washed-out ribs dried-up bottoms waddling labored steps, behind blown-empty bellies. mothers long ceased care, one frustrated corruption nigeria , chinua emigrated united states 1969 university lecturer. returned nigeria 1976 worked professor english. car accident. 1990 achebe crash nigeria left paralysed wheelchair. year, moved us taught bard college 15 years. 2009, achebe joined brown university professor african studies. chinua died boston march 21, 2013, age 82. things fall apart clash civilisations . nigerian novelist, achebe portrayed social disorientation resulted western colonisation africa. 1958, published first widely read novel, things fall apart. novel portrays clash cultures took place christian missionaries western colonials encountered traditional african societies 19th century. novel follows life okonkwo, ibo leader local wrestling champion. exiled upon return, finds community submitted influence western colonisers. realising much life village worsened, hangs himself. "the world end, good among one people abomination others," writes achebe. 100 best english novels. 2005, time magazine listed things fall apart list 100 best english-language novels 1923 2005. things fall apart still one read books modern african literature. novel sold 12 million copies translated 50 languages. book followed sequel, longer ease, originally written second part larger work along arrow god. child cannot pay mother's milk chinua achebe, book things fall apart recognition 30 honorary degrees. acknowledged father modern african literature, chinua awarded 30 honorary degrees universities around world. achebe also many literary awards, inaugural nigerian national merit award 1979 man booker international prize fiction 2007. dorothy lillian gish prize 2010. annual prize given "a man woman made outstanding contribution beauty world mankind’s enjoyment understanding life". praised mandela. south africa's anti-apartheid revolutionary leader nelson mandela called writer "in whose company prison walls fell down". current president south africa jacob zuma described "colossus african writing". literary critics compared achebe's eminence worldwide gabriel garcia marquez, toni morrison handful writers. people & power rob africa function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('1952572493001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news arts & culture nigeria africa
300,000 civilians returned east aleppo since start 2017 [max black/ap] year deadly battle ravaged syrian city, residents east aleppo still struggling recover. northwestern city bears scars government-led offensive last year, living east aleppo need assistance regain sense normalcy, aid workers told al jazeera. around 300,000 displaced aleppans returned east city since start 2017, according united nations refugee agency, unhcr . "the humanitarian situation slightly getting better, lot destruction still city, terms infrastructure houses families," ingy sedky, spokesperson international committee red cross (icrc) syria, told al jazeera telephone interview damascus. neighbourhoods "still totally destroyed", also growing concerns shortages electricity clean water. many residents relying generators, cost around $3 per ampere week. aid organisations helping meet water needs providing tanks, must done fully restore supply. daily meals, winter supplies, medical assistance post-traumatic rehabilitation also provided try get city back "pre-crisis level". "the availability services limited," said massimo diana, syria representative united nations population fund. military checkpoints spread throughout eastern neighbourhoods [max black/ap] security concerns syrian government forces, backed allied groups russia, launched major offensive retake rebel-held districts eastern aleppo one year ago, september 2016. fighting intensified november, bloody images trapped civilians, bombed hospitals distraught children flooded news. least 463 civilians died, including 62 children, according uk-based syrian observatory human rights. month-long army onslaught, syrian government forces "fully recaptured" eastern aleppo rebels december 22, 2016. year since deadly battle, aleppo come heavy bombardment government warplanes targeting rebel fighters recent weeks. 60 people killed dozens wounded three air raids busy market atareb, town aleppo countryside, earlier week. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5643466251001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5643466251001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: displaced aleppo resident - 'syrian army targeting us air strikes' (2:19) pageloadedsuccessfully "we believe biggest challenge residents currently military checkpoints spread eastern neighbourhoods, due fear arrest forced disappearance," said fadel abdul ghany, founder syrian network human rights. ayman al-sheikh, worked surgeon syrian american medical society aleppo four years evacuated, said people want end "killing, bombing air strikes". "they [civilians] want rights, equality freedom," said sheikh, works idlib. restoring hope aleppo project , open collaboration among syrian refugees, students, academics policy experts, looking help rebuilding process. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5311035755001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5311035755001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: opening shop east aleppo (1:46) pageloadedsuccessfully pageloadedsuccessfully four-member team based budapest interviewed 1,000 aleppans - home exile - relationship city, experiences war displacement, vision future. alhakam shaar, research fellow aleppo project, said despite corruption lack security services, progress made - biggest challenge return displaced residents. "with semi-functional system, fear persecution extortion security checkpoints, displaced cannot return, much city rebuilt, cosmopolitan aleppo reduced shadow past self," shaar told al jazeera email interview. still, diana said, remains important restore hope among civilians give sense "worst over". damascus resident iad tawil, studied law university aleppo, spent recent eid-al-fitr holidays friends family aleppo. celebrations "not pleasure; relief", said. "people aleppo actually like live, love live." follow saba aziz twitter: @saba_aziz al jazeera world syria: roots tyranny function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5358784560001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news syria's civil war battle aleppo middle east human rights war & conflict
eisenkot told elaph iran biggest threat middle east [file: reuters] prominent saudi website published unprecedented interview israel's army chief staff, signalling closer cooperation two countries regional rival, iran . interview published elaph thursday, lieutenant-general gadi eisenkot said israel ready share intelligence information face "threat" posed tehran. israel's military confirmed content interview, rare episode given saudi arabia israel formal diplomatic relations. interview, eisenkot called iran "true biggest threat" middle east, accusing supporting armed groups throughout region. said necessary stop iran spreading influence. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5468878122001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5468878122001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: israel backs gcc states rift qatar (2:45) interview al jazeera, anna ahronheim, military correspondent jerusalem post, confirmed report, saying interview conducted israeli druze journalist tel aviv. "it's pretty significant deal," ahronheim said, noting eisenkot even give interviews israeli news outlets. "this definitely big step eisenkot do." last time israeli chief staff spoke arabic outlet al jazeera. ahronheim said unlikely two countries would immediately cooperate wide-ranging intelligence sharing, could cooperate closely, particularly iran. eisenkot , however, said interview interest israel launch attack iran-linked hezbollah lebanon. israel increasingly making public alliance saudi arabia following inauguration donald trump us president earlier year. june, yisrael katz, israel's intelligence transportation minister, suggested saudi arabia's king salman invite benjamin netanyahu , israel's prime minister, riyadh, establish full diplomatic relations. katz also said king salman send son, crown prince mohammed bin salman , tel aviv. afp news agency later reported crown prince made secret visit tel aviv september. report denied saudi arabia. source: al jazeera news israel saudi arabia middle east
mugabe appeared graduation ceremony wearing blue academic gown hat [ben curtis/ap] zimbabwean president robert mugabe appeared public first time since army's takeover earlier week. mugabe, believed house arrest, attended graduation ceremony zimbabwe open university capital, harare, friday, welcomed cheering crowd supporters. dressed blue academic gown hat, entered ceremony venue surrounded security personnel, announced opening event joining crowd singing national anthem. mugabe's surprise appearance came soldiers took control headquarters state broadcaster zbc blocked access government offices wednesday, denying part coup government ruling zanu-pf party. 'significant progress' according army statement broadcast zimbabwe state television friday, military leaders "engaging commander-in-chief president robert mugabe way forward advise nation outcome soon possible". "significant progress made operation weed criminals around president mugabe," statement said, adding military arrested others remained large. sought "committing crimes causing social economic suffering zimbabwe". 93-year-old president appeared university without wife, grace mugabe, whose whereabouts still unknown. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5649997873001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5649997873001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: zimbabweans start contemplating life mugabe pageloadedsuccessfully al jazeera's haru mutasa, reporting harare, said mugabe's attendance army's way saying "this coup". "the army says aim military intervention arrest criminal elements around mugabe. also suggests anyone place take over, probably take time. happen immediately, possibly ruling party's conference december," said. "mugabe master tactician, known intelligence. he's around long knows play game still support within ruling zanu-pf party. still support much admiration - see african icon. "when go, whatever terms is, likely graceful exit. supporters would want go dignity carefully managed." transitional administration military seeks reinstate former vice president emerson mnangagwa first vice president leader transitional administration. however, believed mugabe still resistant demands resign, increasing internal calls war veterans army could see mugabe bringing mnangagwa back fold possible end temporary takeover. army continued patrol streets harare, mostly calm friday, local newspapers declared mugabe era over. "dawn new era," one said. "mugabe remembered brutal 37-year rule," said another. {articleguid} also friday, zimbabwe's war veterans said mugabe would allowed remain power, issuing ultimatum step saturday. chris mutsvangwa, head zimbabwe national liberation war veterans association, said organisation supporters would march state house saturday "a people's show force" mugabe's refusal step down. "we issuing stark warning mugabe want associated doesn't leave going settle score tomorrow. going back mugabe, must leave," mutsvangwa said. mutsvangwa, ex-ambassador china, said mugabe step down, would take matters hands, without offering details. mutsvangwa added veterans saluted zimbabwe's military seizing power earlier week. temba mliswa, expelled zanu-pf member independent parliamentarian, said mugabe refused step down, motion pass no-confidence vote would put parliament next sitting tuesday. "he old man, sick state shock needs digest news never imagined day would come," mliswa told al jazeera. "he longer resist, know time up." source: al jazeera news zimbabwe robert mugabe africa
beirut map [al jazeera] lebanese politicians bankers believe saudi arabia intends country qatar - corral arab allies enforcing economic blockade unless demands met. unlike qatar, world's biggest supplier liquefied natural gas population 2.7 million, lebanon neither natural financial resources ride out, people worried. 400,000 lebanese work gulf region, remittances flowing back country, estimated $7-8bn year, vital source cash keep economy afloat heavily-indebted government functioning. "these serious threats lebanese economy already dire. cut transfer remittances, disaster," senior lebanese official told reuters. threats came lebanon's former prime minister saad hariri , resigned november 4 shock broadcast riyadh lebanese political leaders ascribed pressure saudis. hariri, ally saudi arabia, sunday warned possible arab sanctions danger livelihoods hundreds thousands lebanese living gulf. spelled saudi conditions lebanon avoid sanctions: hezbollah , iran-backed group lebanon's main political power part ruling coalition, must stop meddling regional conflicts, particularly yemen . according lebanese source familiar saudi thinking, hariri's interview "gave indication might waiting us real compromise reached. playbook qatar." hariri's resignation thrust lebanon centre escalating rivalry sunni saudi arabia shia iran. non-confrontational saudi policy past towards lebanon gone, analysts say, new leadership crown prince mohammed bin salman , 32-year-old son king salman. mohammed bin salman de facto ruler kingdom, running military, political economic affairs. advertising whether iran hezbollah willing make significant concessions riyadh doubtful, sources said. "they (hezbollah) might make cosmetic concessions, won't submit saudi conditions," source familiar hezbollah thinking said. lebanese analyst sarkis naoum said riyadh wanted hariri return lebanon press president michel aoun open dialogue address conditions hezbollah's regional interventions. "they need come position satisfactory saudis ... saudis decide sanctions it," naoum said. source close hariri said "put ball court aoun, hezbollah allies, saying 'business cannot continue usual.' "there sugar-coating. sanctions spelled clearly. want lebanon disassociated hezbollah." aoun welcomed comments former premier planned return home soon, palace sources said monday. saudi frustration lebanon seems boiled string setbacks foreign policy. riyadh bogged war launched iran-allied houthi rebels yemen 2015. saudi arabia accused iran hezbollah backing houthis, also said hezbollah role firing ballistic missile yemen towards riyadh earlier month. list potential sanctions lebanon, political sources say, could include ban flights, visas, exports transfer remittances. imposed qatar, blockade, initiated june, limited effect emirate far, beyond driving closer iran. saudi policy allegiance foreign backers new lebanon. "the lebanese always agents foreign powers. take money, make promises, commitments alliances," naoum said. hezbollah fulfilled promises iran, sunni factions let riyadh down, said. riyadh historically channelled billions dollars lebanon help reconstruction, 1975-90 civil war following massive israeli incursions south lebanon. appears ready serious economic damage lebanon could weaken hezbollah's standing home region, demands met. "lebanon pay price," top lebanese banker told reuters. "the pressure saudis economic ... put pressure imposing sanctions hurt." source: reuters news agency hezbollah lebanon saudi arabia politics business & economy
remember moment 2016 presidential results started coming in. standing outside hillary clinton 's election night victory party headquarters. chilly out. still, hundreds people gathering outside javits center new york city. food trucks entertainment, carnival-like atmosphere. people celebrating believed would clinton's imminent win. stood amid merriment, remember vividly, producer's voice earpiece. main newsroom doha, reading first election return results. "trump's lead," told me, "significantly". snapped back: "uh, think mixed results up." clinton supporters shocked night election[matt rourke/ap photo] answered firmly, british accent sounding even pronounced usual, "kimberly, not. trump's lead." moment, story covering next us president shifted - ways could never imagined. it's still historic presidency, one expected. trump's mood affects everyone - even reporters contrast hillary clinton's carefully scripted distant interactions media campaign trail, covering donald trump 's white house edgy unpredictable. trump's first press secretary, sean spicer, replaced sarah huckabee sanders. southern sensibilities contrast spicer's heated temper dominated early media briefings. but, far, one able tone similar brashness president. trump's mood affects everyone white house - even reporters. makes unpredictable work environment. days, seems enjoy press, sparring openly, engaging lengthy impromptu on-camera discussions boarding marine one scheduled event. president donald trump waits outside west wing white house [file: evan vucci/ap photo] but, days, trump openly spars media , unable hide disdain craft - often evidenced angry "tweets" social media . sanders says trump tweets considered presidential policy. so, trump may tweeting cosily late night inside white house's private residence, reporters outside often clocking hours overtime. trump tweet multiple topics single day, even hour. challenge react, report make sense 140, often nearly indecipherable, characters. still, policy positions aside, trump's brashness fiery rhetoric, believe president means well. but, often makes mistakes, language, approach, actions. trump's brought new yorker's scrappiness washington. means, even makes error, won't back down. that's enrages many. one year election night victory, comes one's opinion president - there's middle ground. trump either loved … loathed. maybe that's exactly what's needed insurgent candidate turned president, intent breaking washington's stodgy establishment class. need distance truly judge. and, right now, distance isn't luxury many reporters middle unpredictable fast-moving story trump white house. source: al jazeera news author kimberly halkett white house correspondent
us president donald trump talks media departing tour asia [mark wilson/getty images/afp] new revelations trump campaign-russia investigation "rewrite" civil war history, al jazeera examines key developments trump administration last week. 1. trump-russia probe got real former trump aides indicted moment everyone suspected coming. wondered when. monday, first shoe dropped undoubtedly series indictments investigation whether presidential campaign donald trump colluded russia. us special counsel robert mueller announced indictments two former campaign staffers 12 counts, including conspiracy united states , money laundering, making false statements failure report bank accounts. paul manafort chaired campaign critical time nomination process, overseeing convention trump became republican nominee president. manafort's colleague partner, rick gates, also indicted. according court filings, pair hid " tens millions dollars " work ukraine 2006 least 2016 laundering "the money scores us foreign corporations, partnerships bank accounts". prior joining campaign, manafort often worked pro-russian government victor yanukovych. {articleguid} manafort's lawyer reiterated monday client never colluded russia his, "was seeking democracy help ukrainians come closer united states". white house asserts two men's activities occurred outside duties campaign. mention trump campaign indictment. george papadopoulos? plenty mentions trump campaign third indictment relatively unknown trump adviser. george papadopoulos, third left, seen photograph released donald trump's instagram account april 1, 2016, headline saying taken campaign national security meeting washington, dc, march 31, 2016 [instagram/@realdonaldtrump/afp] curious case george papadopoulos raised concerns valuable information special counsel using get others trump campaign. october 5, papadopoulos pleaded guilty making false statements investigators. information sealed monday. papadopoulos foreign policy adviser joined trump campaign march 2016. trump praised "an excellent guy". {articleguid} papadopoulos appeared trump's website national security roundtable meeting candidate. according mueller, papadopoulos presented trump campaign someone contacts kremlin reportedly said russians "dirt" trump's opponent hillary clinton . offered act go-between moscow. least one senior campaign staffer, according court documents, encouraged papadopoulos go russia meet officials, "if feasible". trump dismissed papadopoulos "a liar" twitter white house painted volunteer attended one meeting trump quickly brushed aside. unbeknownst white house monday, however, papadopoulos working investigators described mueller "proactive cooperator". stay tuned. sam clovis becomes casualty investigation fixture trump campaign early important strategist man seeking wins key states. sam clovis, top trump adviser, also became victim mueller indictments week. thursday, officially withdrew nomination chief scientist us department agriculture lawyer confirmed "campaign supervisor" named papadopoulos case. {articleguid} according documents, supervisor touch papadopoulos meetings russians told done "great work". nomination clovis also heavy scrutiny lacked real qualifications, listing level experience natural sciences "none". controversial views climate change , racism public education system also raised concerns among democratic congressmen already slowed nomination. 2. democrats 'rigged' system favour hillary scathing hit piece publication, politico, former democratic national committee (dnc) interim chair confirmed many people suspected: democratic nomination president rigged hillary clinton's favour. donna brazile took chair july 2016 found party deeply debt importantly, completely rigged ensure clinton would get nomination matter what. according brazile, legal agreement signed year earlier, party required divert money clinton campaign away candidates, including biggest opponent, bernie sanders . {articleguid} "this criminal act, saw it, compromised party's integrity," wrote. brazile also wrote mentally prepare phone call deliver news sanders contested clinton way convention july 2016. brazile revelations emboldened trump's attacks clinton, promised throw jail. "at point, justice department, fbi," tweeted friday, "must right proper." 3. trump's double standards attacks within two hours tuesday's horrific truck attack new york city, donald trump took twitter condemn "terrorist" incident. police said saipov sayfullo, uzbek national, carried attack " name isis ", referring islamic state iraq levant ( isil ). {articleguid} saipov, 29, came us legally 2010. ammunition trump needed launch 24-hour political offensive immigrants foreigners including promise shut diversity visa lottery program, signed law former republican president george hw bush. also said would consider sending saipov us-run detention prison guantanamo bay . many people pointed stark contrast reaction attacks white assailants president's reactions muted cautious, even less political. following shooting las vegas white man weeks earlier, 59 people killed, 500 others injured, trump repeatedly cautioned anyone calling gun control regulation. "that's - later time," said three days shooting. {articleguid} others also pointed response killing woman counterdemonstration white supremacist rally august. heather heyer, 32, killed man ties white supremacist group allegedly rammed car group anti-racist protesters charlottesville, virginia. trump blamed "both sides" violence. even denounced attack, said "there fine" people among white supremacists counterprotesters. 4. trump's chief staff john kelly 'rewrites' civil war history us civil war 1860-1865 always hung american racial politics. following march august white supremacists charlottesville, virginia - sparked decision tear civil war monuments - conflict fuelled number back-and-forth debates legacy trump administration media. {articleguid} monday, trump's chief staff, general john kelly, ignited debate again. interview fox news, kelly said civil war - southern confederate army took arms preserve institution slavery - result "lack compromise". critics blasted kelly wondering aloud suggesting us compromised issue slavery. many accused chief staff "rewriting" history. kelly also referred confederate army general robert e lee "an honourable man". white house back kelly's remarks "i going get relitigate civil war," white house press secretary sarah sanders told reporters tuesday. "if individuals engaged willing come compromises different things, may occurred." 5. trump heads asia trump's longest foreign trip far - 12-day excursion japan, south korea, china , vietnam philippines. {articleguid} friday morning, us president took region major focus ire. august, trump set alarm bells throughout asia told reporters attempts north korea develop nuclear warhead would met "with fire, fury frankly power, likes world never seen before". officials say trump reiterate tough talk seoul next week visiting memorial americans died peninsula korean conflict 1950s. trump also raise issue perceived unfair trade practices china beijing. eyes meets philippine president rodrigo duterte manila first time. duterte rejected invitation trump visit white house criticised us congressmen condemning reported human rights abuses. "i've seen america it's lousy," duterte said july. source: al jazeera news author chris sheridan @ chrissheridan34 donald trump united states us & canada politics
refugees protest manus island prison camp papua new guinea [refugee action coalition via ap] port macquarie, australia - refugees say supplies food water running desperately low inside former australian-run refugee detention centre papua new guinea's manus island. almost 600 men refusing leave perceived lack security drinking water extracted well dug sand. toilets blocked, fear dysentery may soon spread. un high commissioner refugees called australia take immediate action stop called "unfolding humanitarian emergency". immediate action australia appear forthcoming. story not, measure, leading every news bulletin. despite restrictions reporting centre, has, however, interest plight men week months. still, large sections public hostile cases men; many others apathetic. it's pervading apathy - sense desperation among pro-refugee advocates - led 55-year-old australian phoebe crane go hunger strike month ago. fly small coastal town port macquarie, hour's flight north sydney, former mental health worker fourth week subsisting teas, coffee, electrolyte-rich coconut water. "i'm starting feel really weak," crane says, adding medically psychologically assessed beginning fast. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5630916903001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5630916903001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: refugees barricade closed manus camp (2:23) pageloadedsuccessfully "many people would say could march, go vigils, write emails, go twitter, facebook. i've done that. end, matter became urgent thought go hunger strike. something aussies don't usually do." husband, launched small media campaign. press releases written, emails sent large number newsrooms. one major media organisation picked phoebe's story. journalists editors divided why. typically small rally refugees sydney week, journalist international news agency tells phoebe hour's flight sydney. times tough; it's expensive travel. i'm sure. skype become standard, even tv reporting. get steer reporter respected news organisation "asylum round" late. refugees gone hunger strike past, made news. middle-aged woman living otherwise comfortable life? phoebe crane went hunger strike draw attention plight refugees imprisoned manus island [bill code/al jazeera] reporter aware phoebe's case gave wide berth. covering hunger strikers past, "copycat" hunger strikers emerged. wasn't something reporter wanted risk. try find abc, bureau port macquarie, covered story. i'm told phoebe radar, talk "self-harm" issues surrounding women, food, body image raised shying away story. australian outlets careful comes issues reporting self-harm. country's press council guidelines stress publications "wide discretion" publishing. "but," goes "they balance public interest sensibilities readers." experienced foreign correspondent worked abc rubbishes concerns around body image self-harm. "there's total self-censorship australian media refugee issues," says. "they don't want offend government senate inquiry talking left-leaning abc is." "the term 'advocate' become pejorative australia," goes say. government run "brilliant' campaign keeping journalists away refugees asylum seekers - public thus emotionally removed plight. {articleguid} "australians like think offshore detention 'exception', not. become standard operating procedure," says peter mares, adjunct professor swinburne university melbourne, long-time journalist written two books australia migration. even "surprised" phoebe's story received coverage. "if it's political protest conviction, don't see shouldn't reported. become used things; things become normalised… become inured impact policy," says. growing crisis, has, finally, resurgence interest, albeit measured. part, phoebe says contacted refugees asking stop fasting, sake. awaiting results blood test report back state kidneys. "when started get attention [the men manus]," says. "but everyone talking known four years." depart airport admiring courage, wondering make difference. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5630580429001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5630580429001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: manus island refugees fear safety, refuse leave centre (2:59) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera author bill code refugees australia papua new guinea asia pacific
opposition dubbed government decision ban high denomination notes "monumental disaster" [danish siddiqui/reuters] wednesday morning, indians woke celebratory advertisement government prime minister narendra modi . advertisements leading national newspapers highway billboards claimed "demonetisation: historic multi-dimensional success." opposition, however, dubbed government decision ban high denomination notes year ago day "monumental disaster" "tragedy". modi's shock decision packaged game changer, masterstroke, something country economy size ever attempted. drama around announcement intriguing; evening november 8, 2016, media got heads prime minister modi going make address nation, one clue coming. trying justify act, government ruling party kept shifting goal post - first, 'black money', fake currency, digital india 'terrorism' funding. delivered surprised shocked country – 86 percent currency rendered illegal executive order. followed complete chaos. people forced stand serpentine queues front ill-equipped banks; many questioned wisdom behind move. {articleguid} one year line, growth figures first quarter, expected predicted critics gross domestic product (gdp) rate 5.7 percent – worst three years. opposition parties saying dip essentially due demonetisation. "black day" - marking day. year since controversial decision, modi, lots political capital side, remains defiant insists mission get rid "black money" [illegal money declared tax authorities) india. claims, however, contested central bank's report states nearly 99 percent banned notes returned banking system. india's main opposition congress party supporters shout slogans protest first anniversary demonetization announcement, new delhi, india [supreet jayanna/al jazeera] history demonetisation india , demonetisation new. british colonial rulers attempted similar move, banning 500, 1,000 10,000 rupee notes year india granted independence. ordinance january 12, 1946, provisions three years imprisonment along fine violators. newspaper clippings period reveal similar panic. british administration hoped demonetisation would penalise indian businesses concealing fortunes amassed world war ii. three decades later 1978, indian government decided demonetise 1,000, 5,000 10,000 notes objective combat tax evasion bring back "black money" held outside formal economy. move criticised "extreme step". {articleguid} first decade 21st century brought good cheer indian economy - businesses booming, period also saw string corruption scandals. battle financial corruption, previous upa government toyed idea demonetisation again, committee central board direct taxes recommended 2012. plan shelved report noted "black money" largely held form benami (nameless) properties, bullion jewellery, cash. effects demonetisation besides immediate impact inconvenience people caused process note swapping, cascading effects devastating job market. according data released tuesday centre monitoring indian economy (cmie), estimated total employment january-april 2017 period 405 million compared 406.5 million preceding four months. cmie data also estimated number persons employed fell 1.5 million january april 2017, number people declared unemployed fell much more, 9.6 million. essentially near collapse informal sector economy. various sectors like fishing farming witnessed sharp drop. farmers unable even recover cost transportation, let alone make profit. growth core sectors like construction materials refinery products, constitutes 38 percent index industrial output (iip), decreased, negative wage implications casual workforce. shifting goal post advertisement government national newspaper trying justify act, government ruling party kept shifting goal post - first, "black money", fake currency, digital india "terrorism" funding. said done, "the proof pudding eating" elections early year india's largest politically significant state uttar pradesh gave thumping majority bjp. touted people's stamp approval demonetisation, least politically. politics continues dominate debate, government celebrating day #antiblackmoneyday opposition observing #blackday. modi government says move bear fruit long run. former indian prime minister manmohan singh might last word this, quoting british economist john maynard keynes, said: "in long term dead." effigies depicting wounded indian economy placed wheelchair next mock bodies people allegedly died standing queues outside banks automated teller machines (atm) withdraw money nov. 8, 2016 demonetization, protest first anniversary demonetization announcement, new delhi, india [supreet jayanna/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news author anmol saxena anmol saxena bureau chief al jazeera english india based new delhi. @ bolanmol business & economy india asia
several heads state posing family photo last year's apec summit lima, peru [file: mariana bazo/reuters] memorable event asia pacific economic cooperation ( apec) summit usually traditional "silly shirt" photo opportunity, powerful people earth outfits selected host nation stand together, trying look comfortable front cameras. last year, peru , summit's host, gave leader woollen shawl. 2017 host vietnam last held apec, 2006, heads state made wear traditional long gowns known "ao dai". it's fair say likes then-us president george w bush russian counterpart, vladimir putin , looked little stiff. putin, back vietnam week apec 2017 central city da nang, us president donald trump may feeling little nervous hosts' sartorial selection, perhaps even hoping vietnamese follow lead japanese americans past thrown fancy dress opted smart casual business suits. new faces barry soper, v eteran new zealand political journalist, suggested apec really stood ageing politicians expecting cocktails. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5636981018001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5636981018001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > trump offer asia? pageloadedsuccessfully younger leaders mix time, including jacinda adern, 37-year-old new prime minister new zealand, 45-year-old canadian counterpart, justin trudeau. however, reality remains apec leaders' summits rarely result anything grab headlines around world - family dress-up. fact, could say presidents prime ministers stayed away completely, outcomes would similar. deals agreements reached governments business leaders, usually hammered officials, trade representatives, well leaders arrive apec, usually summit's two final days. year different? comes news coming apec, year could different presence human headline trump - even purely entertainment value world watches listens might say post twitter. {articleguid} apec dominated talks around trade deals like trans-pacific partnership (tpp) - trump's stance multi-lateral agreements well documented: doesn't like them. so, nations forging ahead without us. but, course, cannot afford ignore world's largest economy, instead may play time, hoping either trump change mind, change leadership us. according one senior official involved tpp negotiations, everyone us government page trump comes trade, message whispered discreetly negotiators washington subject multi-lateral deals is, "don't give us, we'll back". strong encouragement vietnam, would dearly love signed document mark successful apec, remaining 11 tpp nations probably come sort broad agreement da nang. however, signs could far final deal members push changes complex, multi-layered pact goes way beyond simple buying selling goods services. also danger that, it's left long, greater chance circumstances member countries changing, therefore putting membership risk. again, change us could good tpp. source: al jazeera news author wayne hay roving correspondent vietnam apec business & economy asia pacific
protester wears trump mask banner 'protect climate - stop coal' bonn, germany [wolfgang rattay/reuters] bonn, germany - time year annual climate wagon rolls town, replete delegates, politicians, scientists lobbyists. cop23, un climate change conference, begins monday german city bonn. theory, 2017 version wholly uninteresting fortnight impenetrable text revisions and, outsider, unintelligible policy engineering. factor us president. june year, donald trump told world us would staying paris agreement , accord forged 2015 nations bar nicaragua syria . pledged hold global warming "well 2c" aim 1.5c limit. {articleguid} since nicaragua signed up, us company syria climate vision - dysfunctional nation ripped apart war . concerns whether impending us withdrawal derail whole agreement. certainly changed dynamic perhaps, surprising way, appears galvanised effort tackle climate change. even within us , cities states taken upon fight back federal scepticism reversing president obama 's environmental policies trying re-energise coal name jobs. take california's governor jerry brown, runs state continues lead reducing emissions regardless federal policy. minimises negative effects trump helping fund us pavilion bonn, extol virtues climate change policy. hand, reported trump administration promoting coal, natural gas nuclear energy answer climate change event bonn. argue credible projection shows fossil fuels meeting less 40 percent global energy demand 2050. likely hugely popular event virtue sheer unpopularity concept. despite trump, 'we're still this' meanwhile, ngos pacing floors conference halls try keep momentum. wwf's climate adviser, dr stephen cornelius, says global unity maintained without white house. "clearly, america important country," said dr cornelius. "but saw president trump made announcement june, lot countries standing saying 'we're still this'. "so even without federal government stepping plate, national actors prepared so." clearly, america important country. saw president trump made announcement june, lot countries standing saying 'we're still this'. dr stephen cornelius, wwf climate adviser however feel climate change, extraordinary year weather . warming oceans fuelled fury unprecedented hurricanes cyclones across world. raging wildfires, floods heatwaves. science attribution still developed trend appears emerging bigger, destructive events. 'still emitting far much' particular concern low-lying fiji , holds year's presidency climate conference. sea levels rise, fiji officials pressing big emitters step forward quite simply offer global effort tackle climate change. ultimately, conference try formulate rulebook proceed actually implement paris agreement year 2020. time essence, say experts. trump may listening let us leave last word erik solheim, head united nations environment programme, puts simply. "the numbers don't lie. still emitting far much needs reversed." source: al jazeera news author nick clark environment europe us & canada united states donald trump
renderpagesvideo('5643976952001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); world's population grows, ever-increasing appetite meat putting heavy strains environment exacerbating climate change. global meat industry produces greenhouse gas emissions cars, planes, trains ships combined. demand unlikely diminish anytime soon, science could make possible still eat meat without destroying planet? global meat consumption quadrupled since 1960's. 35 years, world's population projected grow seven 10 billion, we'll eating 70 percent today. scientists industry analysts agree impossible meet future demand current production methods already stretched capacity. factory farming livestock requires large amounts increasingly scarce water land resources. clearing forests grazing also compounds impact climate change removing natural carbon sinks. methane gas, primary greenhouse pollutant animal farming 30 times potent heat-trapping gas co2. addition challenges, treatment animals industrial farms raises significant ethical concerns. so, raising eating meat bad planet, don't stop? meat-eating 'environmentalist' sounds simple, dilemma is, truly love meat. even journalist covers climate change, can't imagine great piece steak, favourite french sausages, bacon eggs. feel truly worried effects producing meat environment. addition, overuse antibiotics industrial farming contributed rise antibiotic-resistant bacteria - still can't stop eating it. what's meat-eating 'environmentalist' do? imagine excitement learn ground-breaking work dutch scientist mark post, claims path solving problems. post invented lab process grow meat - real meat - outside cow. lab burger, anyone? method potential scale back negative environmental impacts growing meat, vastly reduce number animals slaughtered, still deliver delicious burger! according post, able produce 10,000 kilogrammes meat one muscle cell without harming cow. here's works: frankenmeat? reporting story enthusiastically sharing friends colleagues, many responded idea laboratory-grown meat alarm outright disgust. raises question, would people actually eat it? realised underestimated attached food authenticity, food many something want connect with. time, people don't really want know meat ended plate. understand idea eating meat grown laboratory comes across sci-fi movie plot. concern don't change produce meat heavily polluted future may much worse. science alleviate massive issues caused meat industry, would happily first one try lab burger. human race entering era cultured meat cells one cow could feed whole europe. me, sounds like something excited about, rather fear. take time, suppose main thing is, professor said; get used it. source: al jazeera news author fleur launspach fleur doha-based reporter producer netherlands covering stories europe. @ fleurlaunspach environment netherlands europe
astana, kazakhstan - "astana created nothing," say here. certainly truth city created scratch central asian steppe. 7th round talks ending six years devastating war syria, led three main players: russia , iran turkey . russians iranians backing syrian government bashar al-assad , turkey backing rebels. syrian government itself, syrian opposition, delegations united states united nations . however, become extremely clear it's russians charge particular show. may come surprise syrian observers, depth influence certainly surprised me. speaking people talks, get real sense russians consolidated politics military tactics syria something parties failed do. russians either forced coerced syrian regime remaining quiet doing, say, analysts say. it's strategy certainly seems working. deepening russia's involvement, foreign ministry announced tuesday 33 syrian opposition groups political parties invited russian resort sochi "syrian congress national dialogue" november 18. part, us stated wants assad regime political role future syria, astana met scepticism. russian special envoy syria, alexander lavrentyev, told reporters: "the syrian president made important statement 26th [october] said would welcome, accurate, made clearer thoughts constitutional amendments, includes drafting new constitution holding parliamentary presidential elections." reading lines, russia sees role assad future. {articleguid} comes syrian opposition figures, russians appear saying get they're given. main demand opposition prisoner-hostage exchanges. russian envoy lavrentyev says moves "complicated issue", suggests agreement reached. syrian opposition understands position weakness divided. opposition consultant yahya al-aridi diplomatic talking al jazeera. "in sense united want peaceful syria, don't format. substance important format," aridi said. format important, however, allows russia take advantage syrian opposition disunity moscow's advantage, long complaint disparate groups opposing assad. un, pushing political change. russians making right noises assad concrete promises future. assad biding time. meanwhile ground, even de-escalation zones set astana talks september, violence civilians continues unabated. international rescue committee says russia, iran, turkey failed protect civilians. three countries guarantors so-called safe zones, say attacks launch legitimate targets, including islamic state iraq levant (isil, also known isis) hay'et tahrir al-sham . us role also somewhat confusing, particularly syrian opposition eyes russia's influence much suspicion. thing americans seem consistent statements assad power, russians iran managing quite well. breakfast overheard one member western delegation ask location syrian government representatives. "we need ask russians, meeting soon," came reply. fitting aside. talks astana, russians seem centre all. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5594180192001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5594180192001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: russia's involvement syria affect diplomatic efforts? (2:36) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera author imran khan @ ajimran syria's civil war middle east russia iran turkey
iraqis frequent cafes park baghdad violence gone [file photo: khalid al-mousily/reuters] comes mind think baghdad? year ago, iraqi capital scene explosions, military checkpoints armed men roaming streets . baghdad suffered numerous attacks security problems past several years. reporting extensively since 2011, witnessed rise islamic state iraq levant (isil, also known isis), captured huge swaths country three years later. putting aside american occupation invasion moment, last years incredibly violent city. however, notice marked difference arrive back assignment. city's endless checkpoints gone streets seem busier ever. last attack baghdad may year, huge car bomb ripped shopping district karrada, killing scores. immediately claimed isil. visit small cafe karrada hit suicide bombs past, find iraqis think current security situation. karrar, car trader, friends sit street smoking shisha generally mocking other. puffs shisha pipe, tells feels confident baghdad changing. "the city feels safer, it's here. trade people mosul, seeing streets get busier. fact iraq defeated isil," says friends nod agreement. "but still issues. there's still lot corruption rule law needs firmer, feel confident things changing better." iraqi authorities, bringing end almost daily wave suicide bombings one reasons needed defeat isil. armed group controls isolated villages iraqi border jordan run intense campaign iraqi security forces, shia -led militias, kurdish peshmerga us -led coalition air strikes. it's effect. bahar janabi retired engineer brought family picnic al zawhra park. around him, iraqi families play swings roundabouts, amusement park giant ferris wheels gets ready open. "i park 15 years. today first time here. always felt trapped neighbourhood before, breathe air see people enjoying themselves," said. ask thought today good time come back park. good degree pride, says: "the government united iraqis fight isil. won. feels like new life baghdad." park buzzes noise laughter walk around meet another family. three generations ismail's family surround her. young girls older women share picnic blanket. "there fewer explosions. less sectarianism. high isil times, people realised good comes sectarianism people accepting other. look around you. shia, sunni christian here," says, shielding eyes sun. park certainly full iraqis hues, police checkpoint entrance reminds baghdad still carries scars violence. keep fragile peace, prime minister haider al-abadi real challenge hands. must build success anti-isil operation also unite iraq , reaching out, particular, sunni community long felt disenfranchised. also deal iraqis joined isil. karrada asked karrar friends done iraqi isil fighters. prompt answer was: "execution". another one was: "justice". still lot anger towards isil here. managing key, dealing root causes rise isil even important. one reasons isil able take hold iraq sunni youth felt ignored shia-led government, prime minister nouri al-maliki. abadi change that? certainly hopes so, bomb attack nearby city abu ghraib november 8 reminder still long way go. follow imran khan twitter @ajimran source: al jazeera news author imran khan @ ajimran iraq isis sunni shia middle east
crown prince mohammed bin salman photographed riyadh october 24 [fayez nureldine/afp/getty images] saturday "red wedding" moment kingdom saudi arabia? plot thickens riyadh, here's roundup chatter streets. started resignation lebanese prime minister saad hariri, clearly orchestrated move produced executed paymasters riyadh. hariri announced saudi-owned channel saudi capital resigning post protest foreign intervention lebanon 's domestic affairs. irony lost him. ostensible reason gave, invoked late father's name, threatened assassination. day turned evening, reports explosions heard close king khalid international airport riyadh. transpired houthi rebels (linked iran allied former president ali abdullah saleh, partially linked united arab emirates ) fired least one ballistic missile yemen towards riyadh. put exclamation point fact war yemen far - two years since saudi arabia launched operation "decisive storm". clock inched midnight another bombshell dropped, time saudis: royal decree ordering arrest several princes, billionaires, notable figures , well sacking senior government officials. sons late king abdullah. one head saudi national guard. three developments seismic implications, saudi arabia, region beyond. {articleguid} resignation hariri, sacking saudi sponsors, sound alarm bells government doesn't want see another war erupt region. lot chatter involved israel. it's secret israel conducting military exercises northern front several months now. hezbollah busy helping prop assad regime damascus, tel aviv developing missile defence systems. sooner later, want test real-life scenarios, logic would it. forcing hariri quit government would help israel frame aggression lebanon attack iranian proxies. gaza politically neutralised now, following hamas ' handover power palestinian authority, israel could well see optimal time attack. attack would also provide perfect opportunity west test new saudi leadership's "moderate" credentials: would cheer israel on? yemen, war cost saudi economy hundreds millions dollars. war, launched crown prince mohammed bin salman restore sanaa's legitimate government put iran check, failed either. succeeded killing thousands innocent people, displacing millions, helping tehran position defender oppressed middle east. targeting riyadh could push young prince even reckless destructive ongoing expedition yemen. what's clear motive behind mass arrests sackings took place wee hours sunday morning. removing head national guard one-time contender throne obvious play consolidate power bin salman. {articleguid} however, what's puzzling detention billionaire prince alwaleed bin talal. paper, bin talal bin salman match made heaven: want transform saudi arabia "secular" society, detest idea democracy liberalism, equally willing hand kingdom's wealth sovereignty united states . earlier spoke contact used work billionaire prince. told possible reason detention alwaleed's refusal put money help prop saudi's staggering economy. message bin salman country's wealthy elite is: pay get locked up. saudi version game thobes, 32-year-old bin salman shows willing throw entire region jeopardy wear royal gown. actions already destroyed gulf cooperation council (gcc); yemen longer referred functioning state; egypt ticking time bomb; lebanon may erupt. there's lot worry about. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5635970654001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5635970654001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > dozens saudi princes, businessmen arrested anti-corruption bid pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera author jamal elshayyal saudi arabia middle east
renderpagesvideo('5460763226001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); four months since saudi arabia, bahrain, united arab emirates egypt imposed blockade qatar, little progress made towards resolution. may 23, qatar woke news hack attributing false statements emir qatar. fake news aired several uae saudi-owned networks gulf, sparking diplomatic breakdown. saudi-led group imposed embargo qatar, air, sea land borders shut down, qatari diplomats residents expelled blockading countries. despite calls resolution, countries remain impasse. breakdown diplomatic crisis unfolded entails region. read - qatar diplomatic crisis: latest updates saudi arabia, bahrain, uae egypt cut ties qatar? announcements came early morning (5:50am local time, 02:50 gmt) june 5, 2017. bahrain first announce severing ties, followed shortly saudi arabia , uae egypt . days later, jordan also announced would scale back diplomatic ties qatar shut al jazeera bureau amman. countries cut ties qatar? four countries claimed qatar works support "terrorism", maintains cordial relations iran meddles internal affairs countries. qatar's response been? ministry foreign affairs qatar responded initial announcements saying "no legitimate justification" actions taken four countries sever diplomatic relations. added decision "violation sovereignty" would work ensure would affect citizens residents qatar. throughout, qatar strongly rejected accusations levelled it, viewing campaign attempt impose custodianship tiny nation. emir qatar country's foreign minister reiterated qatar willing negotiate boycotting countries, welcomed calls international leaders parties sit around table. "the countries imposed blockade state qatar interfere internal affairs many countries, accuse oppose domestically abroad terrorism. so, inflicting damage war terror," qatari emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al thani said speech un general assembly september. "we refused yield dictations pressure siege." read more: qatar's emir? roots conflict? previous diplomatic rift 2014 qatar gulf countries. saudi arabia, uae bahrain pulled diplomats, claiming qatar supported armed groups. however, border remained open qataris expelled. tensions qatar generally revolved around alleged support political islamic movements, muslim brotherhood, well complaints al jazeera media network, based doha. tensions possibly exacerbated arab spring 2011, saudi arabia qatar seen backing different sides. june 7, saudi foreign minister said qatar must cease support groups hamas muslim brotherhood. "we want see qatar implement promises made years back regard support extremist groups, hostile media interference affairs countries," saudi arabia's foreign minister adel al-jubeir told reporters paris june. cutting ties entail? severing ties diplomatic concept usually entails recall diplomatic representatives closing diplomatic missions country taking step. country initiating move also ask diplomatic representatives party leave country. usually utilised governments times serious complications relations states. opinion: gcc ride storm case current gulf crisis, several dimensions added. bahrain egypt gave qatari embassies 48 hours implement respective departure orders, recalling diplomats charge d'affaires. uae saudi arabia gave qatari citizens residents visiting uae two weeks depart ordered citizens qatar return. saudi arabia went further, withdrawing qatari troops saudi-led war yemen. saudi arabia, uae, bahrain egypt also closed land, air sea passage vessels vehicles coming going qatar. blockade disrupted business, education transport links among qatar neighbours, also tearing apart families whose members held different passports. mid-september, qatar's national human rights committee received 3,346 complaints, 620 families affected measures. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5528897852001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5528897852001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > talk al jazeera: gulf crisis - risk military escalation? pageloadedsuccessfully countries severed ties qatar? four countries imposed land, sea air blockade qatar: bahrain uae saudi arabia egypt saudi arabia also called "brotherly countries" cut diplomatic relations qatar. five countries followed suit: yemen eastern government libya maldives mauritania comoros senegal also cut relations qatar later returned ambassador qatar. following four countries cut diplomatic relations qatar downgraded them: jordan djibouti chad niger despite 13 countries cut severed relations qatar, 89 diplomatic missions still open operating qatar, 34 countries maintain diplomatic relations via regional accredited embassy. correction: earlier version graphic incorrectly stated eritrea severed ties qatar. eritrea denies this. pic.twitter.com/3qktdn4tqp — al jazeera english (@ajenglish) june 29, 2017 israel involved? israel defence minister avigdor lieberman said split gulf countries "opens possibilities cooperation battle terrorism" shows "that even arab states understand danger zionism, terrorism". long qatar's border stay closed anyone mediating crisis? nobody knows long land, air sea boundary closures remain effect, implemented bahrain, saudi arabia, uae egypt. qatar reciprocated. several world leaders called parties dispute begin process negotiations order end stalemate. diplomatic efforts abounded, including turkish president recep tayyip erdogan, russian foreign minister sergey lavrov, us secretary state rex tillerson french president emmanuel macron, appointed special envoy address crisis. kuwait's emir active mediator beginning crisis, travelling one gulf capital next attempt bridge gap blockading countries qatar. gcc? gcc stands gulf cooperation council. political economic alliance countries arabian peninsula including bahrain, kuwait, oman , qatar, saudi arabia united arab emirates. established 1981 aim enhance cooperation close relations among members. gcc going survive? kuwait's emir mediating gcc countries involved current dispute. according giorgio cafiero gulf state analytics, geopolitical risk consultancy based washington, kuwaitis omanis believe escalation conflict could detrimental future gcc. pageloadedsuccessfully economic consequences qatar? qatar's estimated $335bn assets sovereign wealth fund, along newly expanded port allows continue exporting natural gas importing sea goods, small gulf nation appears poised weather sanctions. due heavy reliance oil gas exports, gcc states maintain weak trade investment ties other, limiting economic effects dispute. flight routes affected? qatar airways flights initially take easterly route fly airspace open them. however, august, international civil aviation organization approved new routes qatar airways would allow cut emirati bahraini airspace. based application presented qatar international aviation body. according alan peaford, editor-in-chief aerospace magazine , qatar airways' flight routes would disrupted gulf airspaces closed off. noted two main air routes qatar - saudi arabia bahrain, latter controlling gulf airspace. "the real problem would airspace closes. qatar airways passengers, also cargo, like food fresh fruit flown country." trump administration involved? gcc rift followed us president donald trump's visit saudi arabia may, met leaders arab world. night trump's visit, former us defence secretary, robert gates, offered scathing assault qatar, criticising support "islamists". speech delivered high-profile washington conference, gates said: "tell qatar choose sides change nature relationship, include downscaling base." dispute, white house stated trump wanted help sort diplomatic rift. source: al jazeera gcc qatar saudi arabia bahrain egypt
many military veterans struggle successfully make transition back civilian life [getty images] 20 million us military veterans currently living us. years serving country waging war overseas, many struggle post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd), homelessness addiction. peter collins licensed independent clinical social worker since 1988. past 10 years, worked 6,000 veterans families programme called military veteran services. following account, describes symptoms ptsd provides insight us government deals veterans' battle within. know one veteran walked shopping mall, saw woman wearing burqa, immediately grabbed kid ran mall. felt threatened based experiences combat - knowing friends enemies expecting both, men women, 'terroristic' things. that's example avoidance, one four major symptoms ptsd . {articleguid} ptsd diagnosis didn't exist vietnam war. ptsd called many things throughout history. civil war, called, "soldier's heart", world war ii world war called "shell shock" "battle fatigue". vietnam war started get rolling, ptsd diagnosis formalised, real benefit, treatment protocols figured people getting accurate diagnosis. flashbacks, hypervigilance avoidance four symptoms ptsd start re-experiencing, happens many different forms, including nightmares flashbacks. flashbacks take point feel like you're middle trauma right moment. intensive thoughts feelings also part re-experiencing take away anything you're you're trying concentrate on. second symptom call hypervigilance. sense one constantly guard potential threat. usually, threats around amplified, things wouldn't cause person without ptsd triggered feel much larger veteran ptsd. avoidance, third symptom, need avoid things remind trauma. sights sounds; smells, crowds people. also avoid conflict crowds. avoidance big part picture. finally, negative emotions cognition. depressive feelings guilt. sometimes there's moral injury battle buddies may killed friendly fire, emotions affect way think. cognitive distortions have, thinking perhaps loved ones can't trusted, trusting systems, particularly systems like va [department veteran affairs]. hypervigilance... sense one constantly guard potential threat. usually, threats around amplified, things wouldn't cause person without ptsd triggered feel much larger veteran ptsd. peter collins last 10 years, worked specifically service members families programme called military veteran services. service members veterans referred us ptsd diagnosis place. others come in, it's fairly simple matter take look four major symptoms ptsd see somebody endorses them, long. {articleguid} provide basic tools better cope symptoms, exploring options treatment. deal lot post-9/11 veterans, many deployed multiple times conflict required multiple deployments. we've seen many veterans national guard, prior 9/11 would drill month go annual training week. would call disasters cities, like floods kinds things. sudden 9/11 happened people never war really didn't get full training go war went multiple deployments war, didn't expect neither families. peter collins believes us government could help former service members [al jazeera] 'they weren't allowed wear uniforms came home' also deal lot vietnam veterans, kind special group. many never got treatment. welcomed home service, state country country's feelings war vietnam. {articleguid} weren't allowed wear uniforms came home, would spit on, cussed called baby killers. va set handle many veterans, many ptsd. long waiting lists; didn't feel welcomed there, many continued suffer ptsd long periods time. developed problems alcohol, split families lost homes. there's goal end homelessness, many vietnam veterans living grid. live woods, don't interact society. creation veteran centres stay get group therapy works well veterans don't feel comfortable going va. combat veterans, go vet centre, really small buildings community. many vietnam veterans living grid. live woods, don't interact society. peter collins 'mcdonaldisation mental healthcare' mcdonaldisation mental healthcare problem. takes huge research studies lot money create evidence-based treatment, yoga useful, that's list. so, go va country, you're going probably get cognitive processing therapy cognitive behavioural treatment evidence-based practices use. it's like go mcdonald's, cheeseburger going same. {articleguid} problem many things could useful treatment someone struggling ptsd. alternatives gradual exposure, prolonged exposure, yoga, anxiety-reducing kinds things like teaching breathing techniques, mindfulness. evidence-based treatments right everybody. veterans may intellectual capacity emotional capacity, might offered treatment location don't feel comfortable in, yet, go va, that's you're going get. would say us government enough help veterans. post-9/11 population, 60 percent veterans working va. sometimes waiting lists extremely long, somebody crisis mode, trying get treatment come difficult. find can't seen six weeks eight weeks. there's high turnover rate va, i've heard many stories veterans start working somebody ptsd therapist leaves, they're assigned new therapist. damaging relationship. interruption treatment, many, trust thing can't recover from. 'they position asking help' thing is, got va country four o'clock, many staff fleeing cars. treatment offered monday friday 9am 4pm. service members veterans ptsd mental health problems maybe employed, it's almost impossible receive treatment va. {articleguid} veterans, particularly combat veterans, position asking help. runs counter way see themselves. see strong resilient people things provide services people. many veterans told me, despite fact suffering, they're sure whether work us somebody else - another veteran - probably needs us do. think there's room lot growth va, community veteran centres. guarantee military right developing strategies well mobilising recruiting soldiers, various hot spots around world. people america don't know we're still afghanistan , we're still iraq , we're still many countries across world. korea situation obviously hot marching towards potential war. one best things could happen another war, look politics around world, conflicts still exist, conflicts look like they're ready start, don't see happening. special series shelter: america's homeless veterans function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5631922142001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera author reem shaddad ptsd united states mental health war & conflict us & canada
nearly 180 widows village budhpura rajasthan state [ashish v/al jazeera] bundi, rajasthan, india - first glance, radha bai hira bai appear crusaders. september afternoon, two frail elderly women, heads veiled loose ends brightly coloured saris, could heard raising loud slogans outside administrative offices district bundi, western indian state rajasthan. demanding rights compensation, leading group 80 widows whose husbands worked mines succumbed locals call "curse" region - fatal respiratory disease, silicosis. one oldest occupational diseases world kills thousands people every year, silicosis incurable lung disease caused inhalation silica dust found rock, sand, quartz building materials. according report academic research collaboration, nearly 800,000 workers could affected silicosis state rajasthan alone. official data available. radha hira budhpura, "village widows" bundi, situated middle huge sandstone mines. district bundi neighbouring districts bhilwara kota hubs sandstone export europe. radha counts fingers number people family afflicted silicosis. husband, two brothers, oldest daughter, died. says might next victim silicosis. "this die here. moment blood cough, know death come us," said. hira bai outside district administrative office bundi [ashish v/al jazeera] environmental devastation around budhpura visible. rough track leads village craggy landscape grey-brown rock dotted hills piled rubble mines. roughly 5,000 people village, surrounding sandstone mines offer means livelihood. radha diagnosed silicosis, doctors advised stop working stone, stay away dust, choice. raise three younger daughters three children oldest daughter mamta, died five years ago tuberculosis. 32. mamta never worked quarries, air budhpura laden dust affects work mines, also live near them. mamta misdiagnosed tuberculosis, silicosis killed her, says radha. disease left radha weak chronically ill. looks older age. "i feel like half alive. know cure me. want live longer, settle children," 55-year-old says. hira, 58, lost husband silicosis two years ago. 68. "first came cough, treated tuberculosis. would work day drink evening. survive long." midwife village, work paid anything. forced chisel cobblestones, two sons, earning rupee (1.5 cents) piece. carving piece cobblestone size roughly six inches square takes around five minutes, strenuous task carried bare hands, little attention safety health concerns. rules regarding workers' rights often flouted, laws hardly enforced, powerful mining mafia wield influence authorities. work, earn, younger stronger people producing 100 pieces day. "i can't protect sons job. else do?" hira said. al jazeera tried reach authorities, refused comment. since husband passed away, running pillar post receive 300,000 rupees (approximately $4,595) next kin compensation state government. "rajasthan amongst worst affected silicosis india," says mk devarajan, former member rajasthan state human rights commission, helped formulate state policy silicosis. work way open mine rajasthan state [sunaina kumar/al jazeera] "we've even seen tip iceberg. problem rajasthan rest country much worse imagine. "but, poor people affected it, one plead them," says. state monetary relief mechanism certified silicosis patients since 2013, critics point flaws process. rajasthan government provides rs 100,000 ($1,545) compensation people diagnosed silicosis government-appointed doctors. "certified" patients die, families receive rs 300,000 ($4,636). long process filled arduous paperwork, daunting task workers families formal contracts employment industry largely unregulated. average income people working mines rs 350 day (nearly $5.4), minimum daily wage unskilled non-agricultural workers. working dumpyards outside homes, including widows, earn less $3 day. "i must made eight visits last two months administrative office, every time go back file new paperwork," said hira. "i illiterate nearly ready give up," eyes filled tears. "the average age mine workers diagnosed silicosis anywhere 35 45 years," according dr anil saxena, professor respiratory medicine chairman silicosis board kota medical college rajasthan. "the social complications arise often worse disease itself. find communities indentured work," says. widows age group 18 60 entitled pension 500 rupees (a little $7) month. chanda yadav budhpura, along widows, petitioning widow pension increased. "the younger widows young families support need money," said 52-year-old chanda whose husband died 15 years ago respiratory problems. "a widow supporting family four would need close rs 10,000 month ($155) survive. pension even pittance." young woman carves cobblestones budhpura [ashish v/al jazeera] nearly 180 widows village budhpura, 80 cases silicosis detected village since 2014, according mine labour protection campaign (mlpc), ngo works rights mine workers rajasthan. every family budhpura similar story tell. death comes early, men women die silicosis greater exposure. early symptoms set in, cough, shortness breath, constant fatigue, usually misdiagnosed treated tuberculosis. village widows common parlance state rajasthan. district district, villages found, abysmal work conditions, alternative means employment. rajasthan highest reserves natural stones, including marble granite, india. produces 80 percent india's sandstone. according estimates , 2.5 million mine workers rajasthan, large number risk silicosis. number silicosis certified patients rajasthan - paid compensation government - rising every year, 2,201 cases 2015, 5,058 2016, 1,182 2017, month april (the latest figure available). actual numbers higher, according advocacy groups . women loading stones truck budhpura [ashish v/al jazeera] rana sengupta, managing trustee mlpc, says awareness silicosis gone recent years, needs done. "the tragedy silicosis preventable disease, wet drilling proper protective gear," sengupta told al jazeera. "mine owners india get away without paying compensation workers fail improve working conditions. spend millions buy new machinery, human life cheap," says. mine owners, hand, shift blame workers themselves. chote khan, sandstone mine owner bhilwara, says, "we give workers masks helmets, irresponsible safety." early october, hira bai's compensation finally came through, already delayed nearly two years. plans use judiciously, family secure. "the men die. it's left us women, hidden behind veils everything," said. (with additional reporting petra sorge julia wadhawan. reporting supported european journalism centre funded bill & melinda gates foundation) 101 east widow's penance function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('2682441623001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news author sunaina kumar health india poverty & development environment asia
renderpagesvideo('5647381246001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); london, england - harry leslie smith boy, father hoped dragging hungry son along begged shift weetabix cereal factory northern city bradford, sympathy would secure day's wage. smith, 94 years old, says father would cry factory manager: "look boy. he's starving!" millions men britain work great depression era, sympathy slums yorkshire hard come by. father languishing unemployment, smith snuck factory alone, "because boy alone easier take pity on". workers allowed child ride rounds gave boxes broken cereal take home. smith family poor dinner would weetabix milk, water. years, even finally able afford food, weetabix would never reappear table - sight painful. grown poverty, smith later served royal air force (raf) second world war. seen best worst humanity, optimism sinking. [trump] beginning revolution spread throughout world maybe end civilisation. dreadfully scared, believe harry leslie smith unpredictability hawkish us president donald trump refugee crisis, neoliberalism british government's squeeze national health service ( nhs ), much current state world angers smith. "the us turmoil - don't know way going unless trump eradicated pushed out, another hitler," tells al jazeera, speaking book reading london's wood green district. "that's amounts to. beginning revolution spread throughout world maybe end civilisation. dreadfully scared, believe me." crisp autumn evening promote fifth book. don't let past future reflection poverty wake-up call younger generations think beyond personal desires work towards equal society. harry leslie smith served royal air force second world war [courtesy: harry leslie smith] slight figure wrapped suit black leather jacket. memories cold sink deep bones - family couldn't afford enough coal heat house. asks gloves keep warm interview. one one, young old ticket holders find seats big green bookshop listen smith. many came know event social media. past seven years, shared thoughts, frustrations warnings twitter, gaining almost 140,000 followers. also recently launched podcast. standing outside hotel young woman maybe 30 kit bag slung shoulder. stops apologises says"i don't know happened homeless spare couple pounds sleep hostel." thanks theresa may it's 1932 again. — harry leslie smith (@harryslaststand) november 9, 2017 lifelong socialist, brought 2014 labour party conference tears blistering speech england nhs, describing "when common diseases trolled neighbourhoods snuffed life like cold breath warm candle flame". latest book carries endorsement labour party leader jeremy corbyn : "smith vital powerful voice speaking across generations struggle society." 'today immigrant dirty word, it's ridiculous' born 1923, smith's greatest concern millions forced homes war, persecution poverty, often three. young soldier, witnessed floods refugees across europe abandoning homes hope finding safety. "roads loaded men, women children mostly, giving homes rather face hitler barrage," says. "these people taken slave labour german prisoner-of-war camps people scared lives." many arrived britain, says, welcomed manner would unrecognisable today. "it different world then. britain different country. country heart. lost early love other. arranged migrants children decent accommodation, arranged camps could food, arranged certain areas britain could landed immigrants. "and today, 'immigrant' dirty word, it's ridiculous. 300,000 polish soldiers fought second world war. taken scotland," says, pausing take stock words. "three-hundred thousand people taken scotland accommodated fed everything else." learn live other. much difference us. eat live. work job harrie leslie smith according report oxfam december, fewer three percent five million syrian refugees resettled rich countries. united kingdom, report said, fell far short taking 25,000 syrians - fair share refugees war-torn country, accepted 4,400 people. smith remembers woman protested arrivals refugees fleeing nazi germany small british town. "she told 'you like lump it, life today. get used it.' know? end that. "maybe [the difference now] boils governments taken countries last 40 years." so, given apparent lack compassion western governments, smith taking upon rally empathy refugees today. harry leslie smith pictured so-called jungle camp calais 2016 [courtesy: harry leslie smith/gofundme] last year, visited so-called jungle camp french port city calais. now, raising funds travel refugee hotspots europe document says preventable tragedy could lead conflict "as gruesome" second world war. time publishing, smith secured $37,000 $60,000 goal gofundme tour. "i've always passionate [the refugee crisis] … whole world come together say 'we human beings, live, looking things' - peace good lives children. "we learn live other. much difference us. eat live. work job." mention employment leads smith back days great depression, signs returned worldwide zero-hour contracts rising joblessness. "the fact many young people can't find work [is] disaster, young people can't find work turn mischief. quite often mischief dangerous deadly. "it needn't happen. don't want happen children certainly don't want grandchildren go it." stern warning smith, giving never option despite personal suffering. lost sister tuberculosis 10 years old family couldn't afford doctor; wife, german dearly loved, cancer, 70-year-old son, peter, mental illness. "i good life," says, explaining fear death. tearful eyes, adds: "my middle son died 2009 mental illness ... said friend, 'i know won't long life. thanks parents ball time lived'. "as myself, know beautiful life don't appreciate ends, curtains. nothing else." follow anealla safdar twitter: @anealla harry leslie smith married friede edelmann august 1947, relationships germans still taboo [courtesy: harry leslie smith] source: al jazeera news author anealla safdar anealla safdar online editor al jazeera english. @ anealla refugees poverty & development united kingdom
man sells surgical masks smoggy day new delhi [cathal mcnaughton/reuters] new delhi, india - prashant saxena, head pulmonology critical care new delhi's posh max hospital south delhi's saket, busy man. "this smog silent killer. years come, severe effects polluted air bodies reveal deadly effects," told al jazeera. says 20 25 percent increase emergency patients another 25 percent increase number outpatients visiting daily since thick blanket smog enveloped new delhi last week. "the situation uncontrollable unmanageable us. shortage beds even medicines devices like nebulisers," saxena said. {articleguid} apex body doctors country, indian medical association (ima), urged people stay indoors declared public health emergency wake worst pollution years. new delhi polluted city world, burning crops farmers neighbouring states industrial pollution worsened situation further. pm2.5 levels rose 703 november 7, double 300 mark deemed "hazardous", forcing authorities temporarily shut city schools. since pm2.5, linked lung heart diseases, regularly remained 500 week. tiny particulate matter enters lungs bloodstream. normal life disrupted according science journal lancet , half million indians died prematurely 2015 due pm2.5 pollution. thick blanket smog engulfed new delhi adjoining areas november 7 [altaf qadri/daylife] patients lining government private hospitals ailments chronic obstructive lung diseases, asthma, chronic bronchitis, pneumonia, nasal, eye skin allergies. toxic smog disrupted normal life northern india parts pakistan, flights cancelled number people reporting respirarty disease going up. {articleguid} outside saxena's chamber, patients swarm. it's ayodhya prasad's fourth visit row. says cannot breathe suffering serious respiratory problems owing smog. 55-year-old, works laboratory assistant indian institute technology new delhi, receiving nebuliser therapy hospital. "i can't breathe. keep coughing eyes burn. asthma patient. pollution making unbearable. can't climb three flights stairs home feel lungs give way," prasad told al jazeera. kilometres away high-end hospital jhuggi (slum) valmiki mohalla lives rahul singh. young respiratory ailment prasad. 14-year-old complaining breathing problems chronic cough. "my chest feels heavy, breathe lot force. feel tired time now," singh told al jazeera. 'pollution kill slowly' running risk permanent lung damage study published new england journal medicine shows. mother divya, 40, sole bread-earner family. works housemaid families apartment block nearby, gangotri apartment. "i feel guilty. leave son without anyone attending cannot miss work. doctor says get air filter house, don't money buy expensive device," divya says, prepares lunch son. outpouring anger found space social print media, news channels devoted hours debate pressing issue. many members working class resigned fate face political class engaged blame-game. middle-class apartment cluster alaknanda south new delhi, 50-year-old, radhey shyam works guard. duty mandates stay outdoors whole day city top doctors body, ima, advises everyone stay indoors. "it difficult, eat don't work? pollution kill slowly hunger faster," told al jazeera. man covers face walks work new delhi [saumya khandelwal/reuters] source: al jazeera news author zeenat saberin asia india health environment
firefighters united states three times likely die suicide line duty, according national fallen firefighters foundation. 10 years serving us military firefighter, timothy carr decided leave start afresh. unlike many war veterans suffering post-traumatic stress disorder, carr combat never take lives. but, says, deal people losing lives routinely witnessed traumatic events. still haunted memories death suffering saw trying save lives across world. story words. ever since 15 years old, own. state's custody group homes. working two jobs going high school always wanted something help people, whether police force fire department something like that. decided going join military try firefighter cop military it's easier get normal state, state say, "oh, get certifications first. you've got go school first." military, go in, train get job. {articleguid} tennessee time, went talked recruiter. wanted serve help people. went military week leaving high school became firefighter air force, serving total 10 years. served misawa northern japan. also grand forks, north dakota, hurlburt field, florida, place smaller things oman, saudi arabia south korea. 'you see lot death family grieving' main cause post-traumatic stress us things would encounter firefighters. guess it's probably firefighter, police medics. see lot death family grieving. might even trying save somebody, giving cpr, kids sitting screaming crying. one call guys joyriding, crashed another car. passenger pinned beneath dash, talking him, saying "i telling friend it, want get back base see kids." right outside base japan. snowy icy, kid skyline decided would joyride. working getting guy reassured him, "we'll get there, you'll fine". everybody really wanting help save him. anyway, pushed dashboard, didn't realise pressure legs kind thing holding wound shut. time got dash completely able pull out, died. 'lifestyle shock' saw stuff like time. kind get used deal it, that's develop gallows humour. get little bit jaded helps deal kind stuff. makes harder normal people. definitely changes see things different people situations. while, something happen; you'll hear something, you'll see something reminds call went on. every time see skyline, gt-r, think guy died. civilians don't often get experiences affect long lasting be. small things set off. think lot people say, "whatever, suck up". might talk vets, wasn't point it's debilitating like lot guys. say didn't actually take lives. dealt people losing theirs. wasn't combat. deployed places support combat staff. lot times way would manifest something would happen would kind bring back whatever emergency scene. got february 2005, things starting really get shitty iraq afghanistan. accessing veteran affairs help wasn't really thing yet. vets kind brushed called lifestyle shock. definitely changes see things different people situations. while, something happen; you'll hear something, you'll see something reminds call went on. every time see skyline, think guy died. timothy carr 'a political pawn people's financial gain' {articleguid} war pretty far it's like there's great cause, like world ii. it's politician's gain strategic thing, lithium oil whatever. something happens intervene, don't, forced it. even world war ii, like ran said hey let's this. know kind forced us. lot times it's pointless. look iraq war. there, got let isil go take make country even worse first place. definitely miss actual firefighting. you're trained it, get call, rush like, "let's go save somebody" "let's go put fire, let's go whatever". camaraderie always good… talking, eating, working together, taking classes together. lived 24 hours day, every day, 24 on, 24 off. it's like second family almost. problems, could count one another someone doesn't trust somebody don't something need to, someone's going die call. don't miss political pawn people's financial gain. you're help serve country help others. i'm military someone doesn't know he's doing, especially current administration. they're sending people place stuff shouldn't for. special series shelter: america's homeless veterans function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5631922142001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera author reem shaddad ptsd united states war & conflict mental health us & canada
robert mugabe zimbabwe president canaan banana attend ceremony independence zimbabwe, 18 april 1980 [william campbell/sygma/getty images] president robert mugabe - born february 21, 1924 - came power zimbabwe independence britain 1980 - spent 37 years power - married grace mugabe 1996 1976, robert mugabe still unknown guerilla leader much europe, gave rousing speech geneva gave theoretical coherence chimurenga, shona revolutionary struggle, head zanu-pf's liberation movement spearheading. story: zimbabwe: latest updates opinion: mugabe - wife loyal lieutenant key players zimbabwe crisis? people zimbabwe world reacting? profile: robert mugabe? read military's statement full robert mugabe's famous quotes "our votes must go together guns. all, vote shall shall product gun. gun produces vote remain security officer - guarantor. people's votes people's guns always inseparable twins," said. four decades later, 1976 speech acquired rings prophecy. silent coup started grumbling statement monday zimbabwe defence forces head general constantino chiwenga announcing army's displeasure purges ruling party country - resulted emmerson mnangagwa , vice president heir apparent, fired last week - escalated wednesday army tanks parked key harare streets buildings, culminating mugabe's house arrest palace. final analysis, became clear mugabe unwilling hand power another gun-toting veteran war favour wife grace , army decided pull guns national armoury become arbiter bitter succession fight. struggle succeed 94-year-old president side grace mugabe, ambitious woman plucked 1980s anonymity presidential typing pool become first lady, faction emmerson mnangagwa, battle-hardened politician prison mugabe 1960s 1970s became personal assistant. naturally, army choose would succeed mugabe, mnangagwa opted even though never saw active combat 1970s war forced ian smith go lancaster house negotiate southern rhodesia - zimbabwe - independence britain came 1980. mugabe, suave political operator, theorist survivor, seen words 1970s would come back gnaw question occupy historians political scientists long time come. mugabe listens wife grace rally ruling zanu-pf party [philimon bulawayo/reuters] maybe overweening influence wife grace, born 1965, whom, old man 94, increasingly reliant daily needs. maybe dependence jonathan moyo, rasputian political science scholar turned mugabe's biggest critic 1990s arch-apologist information tzar - accused enemies saying way destroy zanu-pf within party itself. turning wife grace people like jonathan moyo, zanu-pf's guerilla camps tanzania left studies united states act interpreted enemies army desertion), mugabe forgot compact vote gun eloquently spoken then. but, statement chiwenga, mugabe person become liability military-nationalist-patriarchy project war veterans struggle rule forever. country barely functions: zimbabwe uses, including milk, imported; year country experiencing cash shortages big import bill; unemployment endemic and, result, millions young zimbabweans crossed border south africa, botswana neighbouring countries work cases undocumented migrants. able judge, people longer appreciate empty slogans hollow speeches. want us talk things meant improve sustain lives president robert mugabe, 1992 1992, senior official ruling zanu-pf said: "as able judge, people longer appreciate empty slogans hollow speeches. want us talk things meant improve sustain lives." official said mugabe yet autumn years, nonchalant removed man ailed average zimbabwean. continued live zimbabwe second important regional economic powerhouse south africa back 1980s 1990s. never missed chance fly conference - including conferences oceans, absurdity land-locked country - invited. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5647637708001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5647637708001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: zimbabwe crisis: factors led military intervention? (2:25) pageloadedsuccessfully recent egregious instance september zimbabwean delegation united nations conference around 70 people included people government business new york, including daughter bona husband, mugabe's playboy son chatunga hangers-on paid daily allowances dwindling coffers state every month struggles pay workers. "there day day get office, take jackets, take piece paper, perhaps write one two things, take newspaper start reading. put jackets down, it's tea time. satisfied everyone good [day]'s work," mugabe said 1992. mnangagwa: savvy political operator resented mugabe mugabe become person anathema back then. always travelling abroad laissez-faire approach business governing perpetually fanning factional fights zanu-pf perpetuate rule. mnangagwa, business-savvy political operator, realised zimbabwe's endless isolation unsustainable costing country, all, zimbabwe isn't country world diamonds, gold natural resources. "you cannot say areas economy happy with, infrastructure behind 15 16 years, agricultural development same, manufacturing; fact capacity utilisation areas industry 20 percent, again, retool acquiring new machinery, technology machinery competitive," told reporter visit china 2015. "we see create investment environment attract flow capital. must know investment go makes return must make sure create environment investors happy put money return." mugabe looks mnangagwa reads card mugabe's 93rd birthday celebrations harare, zimbabwe, february 21 [philimon bulawayo/reuters] trying reach chinese, british international community, earned mugabe's resentment. mnangagwa become danger mugabe, shona fits noun "mbimbindoga", person stays own, fetishes self relies counsel. mugabe wanted endless autumn patriarch continue uninterrupted. russian poet joseph brodsky wrote, "the average length good tyranny decade half, two decades most. it's that, inevitably slips monstrosity." it's surprise ultimately gun mugabe spoken approvingly 1976 which, ultimately, intervened stop mugabe's 37-year reign turned monstrosity continuing further. follow percy zvomuya twitter: @percyzvomuya source: al jazeera news author percy zvomuya percy zvomuya writer. @ percyzvomuya zimbabwe
adnan hagoog, left, says clan system give chance young people [megan iacobini de fazio/al jazeera] story highlights somaliland, region around 3.5 million people, votes monday vote marks first presidential election since 2010 process witnessed international observers three candidates vying head state around 70 percent population 30 years old one evening october, three presidential candidates somaliland's elections sat backstage one hargeisa's best hotels, listening briefing televised debate take part in. talk clan personality, admonished, personal attacks. instead, candidates focus strictly foreign policy, domestic policy socioeconomic plans. landmark event organised top-tier politicians, group young somalis, who, dissatisfied level political discourse, came together draw attention issues affecting country's youngest citizens. estimated 70 percent population 30. "there lots national issues significant importance discussed," says adnan hagoog, one founders inspire group, think-tank organised debate. young people don't want associated clan politics anymore apathy shows discontent. guleid ahmed jama, chairperson somaliland's rights centre "the perception youth cannot deliver," agrees colleague, abdirashid ibrahim, "but organised debate rose challenge, able [to make candidates] focus bigger picture forget clan." although somaliland's political system incorporates traditional elements modern, political structures, mostly divided fought clan lines, two, main political parties represent specific clan, coalition clans sub-clans. "one reasons youth excluded politics clan system," explains mohamed farah, director academy peace development. "the traditional system led old men, youth women still excluded." registered many young people registered vote presidential elections monday, many feel like properly represented political system. "young people don't want associated clan politics anymore," says guleid ahmed jama, chairperson somaliland's rights centre, "and apathy shows discontent." yet, several young activists connect largely via social media fighting increase young people's political participation somaliland, bid voices heard improve life prospects country. reports say formal unemployment rate youth 35 75 percent, rate literacy low, around 44 percent, even lower women, 20 percent. around 70 percent somaliland population 30 years old [megan iacobini de fazio/al jazeera] "the last generation failed us," agrees khadar mariano, youth activist founder yeel volunteers, organisation working improve somaliland's education system. "but voting option here." "young people need serious discussions, need network increase [political] activity don't face problem next elections," says mariano. "whoever gets elected become constitutional president country, whether like not. question five years change things." young people completely absent politics. "there lot hope youth joining political system, running past right candidates," explains hagoog. "the clan system give chance smart, educated youth get elected actually improve things." hagoog, mariano ibrahim agree clan system elders seminal role somaliland's development, self-declared republic would today without it. clan elders widely credited making - maintaining - peace critical post-war years, following civil war overthrow siad barre 1980s, traditional conflict resolution mechanisms enabled country reconcile. "it elders bring somaliland together keep peace, one point needs clear: clan leaders involved decision making," argues hagoog. "involving clan elders mainstream politics corrupt, it's rotten, it's old way things. somaliland crossroads now, want political interest directed led political ambition, political objectives, clan affiliation." promises young confronted pressure put organisations like inspire group activists like mariano, political officials take notice, issues education, youth unemployment political participation central discourse run-up presidential election. {articleguid} "the country cannot progress young people don't participate decision-making process," agrees hussein badhani, representative ruling kulmiye party, vows empower young people increase political participation. {articleguid} "we intend reform curriculum focus technical skills increase employment, many positions government youth," badhani told al jazeera {articleguid} abdirashid jeeni, representative main opposition party, waddani, told al jazeera that, case victory next week, party would reserve 40 percent jobs public institutions young people, adding first party somaliland create youth wing. whether political parties act promises election remains seen, somaliland's youth already taking necessary steps ensure won't bystanders future, present, country. "these old men tell us leaders future," laughs mariano. "but say: 'no, leaders now. time.'" source: al jazeera news author megan iacobini de fazio elections politics africa
viktor didenko discovered father executed part harbin operation 1958, years disappearance [andrey kovalenko/al jazeera] moscow, russia - viktor didenko born harbin 1935, family lived father worked construction china eastern railway. alone led him, age 15, flee nkvd [soviet secret police] defacto "enemy people". hadn't fled, fate would imprisonment execution. soviet workers, often called harbiners, employed construction china eastern railway sold 1935 manchukuo, manchurian state set japanese.they returned home soviet union, welcomed cheering crowds train stations throughout russia. however, sentiment changed 1937. september head nkvd, nikolai yezhov, issued order number 00593, along "national operations" minorities, instructed agents begin "a broad operation arrest eliminate" harbiners families, accounted 25,000 people. on, considered spies foreign agents japanese germans. official start operation october 1, 1937, set last december. however, extended several times, ending november 1938. one bloodiest operations harbin operation considered third bloodiest among "national operations" undertaken nkvd. returning home harbin, didenkos settled murom - small provincial town viktor's father started work factory driver. august 5, 1937, pavel didenko went work never seen again. pavel didenko, pictured harbin [courtesy: viktor didenko] viktor's mother never told father taken away nkvd, instead telling little boy sent fight second world war. "i didn't realise about," says viktor didenko. "i young mother never told anything. grew older mother send [russia's] far east coming threat me." referring wave arrests, children "enemies people" considered guilty parent's alleged crimes. viktor's mother arranged exile son, freezing december night 1950, viktor didenko stood overcrowded platform yaroslavsky station moscow, waiting train would take across country russia's far east hopefully, safety. stayed, fate would imprisonment possibly, execution. happened thousands people whose relatives deemed criminals peak great terror. "my mother threatened throughout life," said. three years exile, time worked judge's assistant, didenko received news joseph stalin's death. "i able go home first ferry," concludes. communarka, execution ground location mass graves moscow [andrew kovalenko/al jazeera] wasn't 1958 learned whole truth exile father's disappearance, received first version father's death certificate 90 rubles ($1.52) accounting two months father's salary. first death certificate stated father died cancer 1943, 1991 received another official paper informing fact, father executed firing squad 1937. posthumously acquitted. it's sad many innocent people suffered, completely unjustified elena rudiy, granddaughter harbin victims yuliy rudiy head china eastern railway harbin. entire family moved 1929, first started working railway. returned home 1937, yuliy arrested convicted "participation prolific anti-soviet activities", well member trotskyist group. yuliy's wife, anna, left alone raise family. elena rudiy, granddaughter yuliy anna, says: "i heard tried go prison never allowed see send anything him. remember tough woman. never mentioned happened grandfather, discussed me. took great care mother." elena rudiy granddaughter yuliy rudiy, head china eastern railway harbin 1935 [nikolay korzhov/al jazeera] yuliy's file, two interrogation reports dated month apart. first, yuliy rudiy pleads guilty, confirming anti-soviet actions disclosing several affiliates also involved. second, denies allegations claims arrest mistake part nkvd. imprisoned fewer six months executed firing squad february 1938. death, family evicted apartment moscow sent kirov, central russia. "our house kirov summer cottage proper house. remember always cold, scared rats," adds. "it's sad many innocent people suffered, completely unjustified." 1956, charges dropped yuliy rudiy officially acquitted. 'creeping re-stalinisation' sergey prudovsky began researching harbin operation found memoirs grandfather, harbiner spent 15 years gulag. account, grandfather stepan kuznetsov described life camp. alongside vivid recollections, prudovsky found list people grandfather knew working china eastern railway. prudovsky sought information federal security service archives, fsb, granted access grandfather's case file. went locate people mentioned grandfather's memoir. investigated, victims found. impunity breeds atrocities, need remember learn them. russia, people want know problems country sergey prudovsky, researcher grandson harbin victim throughout endeavour, numerous legal disputes fsb refusal disclose archive documents victims former nkvd operatives. "impunity breeds atrocities, need remember learn them. [in russia] people want know problems country," says prudovsky. "there difficult, dark pages history need know about," adds, regarding mass purges great terror. time harbin operation, stalin's unbridled use nkvd eliminate enemies became norm. days, atrocities committed command acknowledged, memorials campaigns dedicated victims political violence. yet still modern-day russia, stalin controversial figure best. boxes case files memorial organisation, ngo focuses recording publicising past soviet political repressions [andrew kovalenko/al jazeera] according recent survey all-russian public opinion centre (vtsiom), 53 percent respondents believe innocent people suffered political repressions. prominent russian political scientist, ekaterina schulmann, draws parallel acceptance stalin's image rise state propaganda. "state propaganda sets certain norm. tells society right, normal, possible all. creates atmosphere people feel it's safe walk around poster stalin, entirely commendable. {articleguid} "concerning stalin's rehabilitation reappearance public spaces see case, it's directly indirectly due state initiative," explains schulmann. "in order control society using non-democratic methods, course, [the government] present society false way. need put image stalin minds member society, able point say backward bloodthirsty are, little able choose without state surveillance. "considering government's actions, events, public displays, seen signs creeping re-stalinisation," wraps up. bronze bust joseph stalin, recently unveiled moscow 'alley rulers' patronage russian military history society [andrey kovalenko/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news author nikolay korzhov russia
soldier carries folded american flag military funeral. [getty images] 20 million us military veterans currently living us. years serving country waging war overseas, many struggle post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd), homelessness addiction. adrian bonenberger one them. story words. don't go parties much anymore. can't remember last time party lots alcohol drugs, know fact using either would bad me. illegal, necessarily, wouldn't good me. would put bad place. {articleguid} never medicated post-traumatic stress disorder, go lot therapy. still go back occasionally i'm bad place. joined us army 2005 served 2012. went second lieutenant first lieutenant first lieutenant captain. never really seen us [military] go place long term. governing understanding war we'd gotten involved vietnam , learned mistake going avoid situations like that. i'd seen us go foreign country couple weeks month couple months, united nations (un) international peacekeeping body would take would anymore. george w bush re-elected, seemed would probably happening iraq. kerry elected would get us iraq. bush re-elected, however, seeing new, multi-generational, long-term warfare commitment. i'm american citizen voted democracy, felt needed participate whatever country - right wrong. individual level, participating democracy threat seemed like right thing do. deployed twice afghanistan combat tours result decision enlist. ' war illegal ' {articleguid} purposeful way die war? guess. maybe die hold enemy machine gun grenade, heroically. maybe there's way die that's full purpose, give aircraft time knock enemy, example. could probably construct scenario plausible say person's death meaningful. think guys died iraq - far could tell - reason. war illegal. anything happened iraq, good reason happened, nothing. afghanistan, little bit different. least, there, thinking nation-building mission. type logic behind it. wasn't iraq, wasn't illegal. something afghanistan - feeling come us. refused give bin laden back. felt like taliban asked it. lot money spent afghanistan. little changed there, things changed seem disturbing. it's hard looking afghanistan iraq perspective today saying necessary. horrible things direct result iraq, don't think necessary. 'you make choices incompatible civilisation' came transitioning civilian world, think intuitive sense could take time. went back school. took lot time space read talk people. {articleguid} even so, apologised teachers former classmates time jerk class. manifested way unlike road rage, somebody would say something would disagree it. disagreeing dialogue academic setting could good, way would would belligerent. you're kind deployment was, kind live like animal make choices totally incompatible civilisation. you're trying kill people. can't really think way live way back civilisation. can't good member society without lot deliberate, "no, don't say that; no, can't think that." originally, resistant getting help department veteran affairs (va), paid pocket go different therapists. didn't get great quality care, people weren't effective jobs, wasn't speciality. eventually go va, actually got excellent care two places spent time. west veterans affairs bronx veterans affairs. i've heard horrible stories veteran care veterans, really get supported went va. think lot depends things are. west va also teaching hospital, essentially, yale medical school. imagine high quality doctors. feel lucky good experience. would say guys know good experience. fortunate. you're kind deployment on, kind live like animal make choices totally incompatible civilisation. you're trying kill people. can't really think way live way back civilisation. adrian bonenberger 'america's quietly sad place be' don't miss serving, things life military attractive. comradeship, sense community. good things, war absolutely necessary make things happen. think actually like, you're camaraderie 130-degree hellhole people shooting you. no. people say that, always tell them: "let's talk day again. let's talk mission. talk trip, want back there? no, don't". there's single thing could immediately improve conditions life world, wars. doesn't look like they're going away, unfortunately. looks like war business booming. america's kind quietly sad place be. context conducive joyfulness unless happen lot money. special series shelter: america's homeless veterans function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5631922142001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news author reem shaddad ptsd united states war & conflict iraq afghanistan
105,000 people sleep unsheltered given night biggest metropolises united states . associated press photographer jae hong travelled seattle, san francisco bay area los angeles hear stories people without permanent homes. many driven streets soaring housing rental costs, booming tech economy leaving thousands behind. another 63,000 people sleep shelters transitional housing safety net. rising numbers pushed extreme poverty open. photos gallery taken 2017.
high spirits celebratory atmosphere characterised political campaign rallies run-up long-awaited presidential election self-declared state somaliland, due take place november 13. somaliland's first presidential election since 2010, stakes high. three candidates - faysal ali warabe ucid party, abdirahman mohamed abdullahi waddani party muse bihi abdi, ruling kulmiye party - vying replace ahmed mohamed mohamoud "silanyo", current head state. contest delayed two years due voter registration issues, lack funding devastating drought. process witnessed international election observers funded uk government, well team 600 domestic observers reporting polling day using sms. hoped hi-tech voter registration system using iris-recognition software guard electoral fraud. past, allegations competing clans encouraged members register multiple times increase political influence. since somaliland declared independence somalia 1991 following bloody civil war, region held five largely peaceful elections one constitutional referendum, forging political system combines traditional leadership modern representative democracy. fact officially recognised country means somaliland's political situation complex, somali federal government mogadishu still lays claim territory.
typhoon damrey tore across central vietnam weekend, days apec summit asia-pacific leaders expected begin, among us president donald trump , china’s president xi jinping russia’s president vladimir putin . vietnam national search rescue committee said least 61 people killed 28 missing. said victims vessels capsized sea. others killed landslides. give full breakdown. 2,000 homes collapsed, 80,000 damaged, said. roads flooded washed away caused traffic jams across several provinces. floods killed 80 people northern vietnam last month, typhoon wreaked havoc central provinces september. country 90 million people prone destructive storms flooding, due long coastline.
prominent palestinian activist politician mustafa barghouti among several thousand people joined protest 100th anniversary balfour declaration central london last week. "it's important today palestinians feel solidarity british people. it's important see british people position british government," barghouti said. "the balfour declaration over. implemented today across palestine. led ethnic cleansing nakba , finished. led israel's apartheid regime, worse apartheid regime existed south africa." 1917 declaration realised zionist aim creating jewish state palestine britain pledged establish "a national home jewish people" there.
become common practice us medicine medication invented patented, determine, define, even invent, disease condition cure for, writes beinhart [ap] arrest john kapoor, founder us-based pharmaceutical company insys therapeutics, shocking news. accused racketeering, conspiracy, fraud felonies. according prosecution, helped devise plan bribe doctors prescribing fentanyl-based cancer pain drug non-cancer patients. what's shocking criminal charges people, corporations. what's shocking insys therapeutics exactly pharmaceutical companies push opioids medications patients may may need them. opioid crisis us . doubt addiction crisis based pills. {articleguid} pills come legal manufacturers marketers - companies business category called - without intentional irony - " ethical pharmaceuticals ". usage opioid-based painkillers pushed aggressively sales marketing forces ethical pharmaceutical companies way market drugs - seminars really expense-paid trips doctors sunshine resorts, free samples, speaker fees, coupons patients 30-day "starter supplies", rebates wholesalers keep drugs "prior authorisation" lists, on. "ethical pharmaceutical" companies something even basic that. manufactured disease called "chronic pain". promoted idea making pain "the fifth vital sign" (after pulse, temperature, blood pressure respiration) doctors examine every visit. back up, created astroturf groups - american pain society, american academy pain medicine, partners pain. become common practice us medicine, medication invented patented, determine, define, even invent, disease condition cure for. it's approved one use, get doctors use lots others things made addiction normal tv ads promoting taking additional drugs deal opioid-induced constipation! opioids fabulous product. prescribed almost anything things people go doctor hurt. years ago, opioid addiction would dark, shameful - criminal - secret. created mainstream corporations profiting it, normalised. made addiction normal tv ads promoting taking additional drugs deal opioid-induced constipation! {articleguid} makes opioids doubly great product addictive. even doctor conscientious stops prescribing, patients likely continue. go pill mill, buy internet street dealers, product coming wholesalers manufacturers. addiction, like type popular indulgence, socially transmitted condition. addicts work together. bring people in. they, too, normalise addiction, people immediately around them. beyond treating cancer patients dying - addiction irrelevant - rest based lie. 2016, cdc finally realised little good evidence opioids helped chronic pain six weeks. given dangerous opioids known be, "discovered" years ago. doctors actually paid attention patients, would realised long ago. takes us another question. prescribing opioids become popular, easily? it's manifestation profit-based us healthcare system. financial structure commends -commands - everyone system fix things quickly simply possible, way billable entering number works various financial players - insurance companies, pharmaceuticals, large healthcare providers. whole system works promote quick visits quick fixes. {articleguid} it's syndrome stimulants like adderall ritalin given children make behave school - pervasive practice almost exclusive us. dealing real causes would time-consuming. solutions might covered insurance low time-to-profit ratio. related story, investigation 60 minutes washington post revealed big pharmaceutical companies sponsored election campaigns congressmen return promoted law stops prosecution major corporations drug pushers are. fits story 50-year movement increase power corporations big money, alter legal system put corporate criminals beyond law, normalise sort corruption representatives paid protect corporate excesses, even play big part 64,000 deaths year. that's makes arrest john kapoor shocking. goes everything us come stand corporate age. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. fault lines heroin's children function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5623410353001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author larry beinhart larry beinhart novelist, best known wag dog. us & canada united states addiction health politics
gulf cooperation council (gcc) founded 1981 [faisal al nasser/reuters] thirty-six years ago, gulf cooperation council (gcc) established primarily enhance collective security six arab gulf state members feared repercussions 1979 iranian revolution. five months blockade qatar imposed three members ( saudi arabia , united arab emirates, bahrain ), tragic irony crisis strengthens iran's status middle east also ushers imminent unravelling gcc meaningful organisation. substantiated exacerbated recent saudi arabian move last saturday pressure lebanese government endanger national cohesion forcing resignation lebanese prime minister saad hariri , announced riyadh stepping down. even bigger problem saudi arabia uae , co-managed war yemen blockade qatar, moves failed achieve objective. strengthened role relationships iran arab world, re-oriented political, military, economic bilateral ties away intra-gulf goals gcc, badly damaged reputation reliable diplomatic perhaps even commercial partners. latest saudi move lebanon , seems aimed weakening iran squeezing hezbollah inside lebanon, likely add litany diplomatic missteps. gcc formally pronounced dead, make-believe world collective arab political action refuses acknowledge hard realities, instead basks soothing illusions fantasies. crisis unleashed five-month-old siege qatar likely trigger slow reconfiguration, rebranding, relaunching entire gcc enterprise, rather sudden collapse formal declaration death. truth, though, gcc longer exists collective security developmental organisation, perhaps never really function capacity. troubling pattern emerges days saudi arabia wishes lay law gulf states, must submit leadership suffer fate qatar: harsh economic sanctions restrictions, along veiled military threats draconian amateurish propaganda campaigns, designed achieve either collapse regime change internally, swift acquiescence saudi arabian rule region. {articleguid} kuwait tried valiantly without success mediate qatar-saudi-emirati dispute. omani kuwaiti scholars consulted long studied gulf region say privately countries fear could subjected saudi-emirati bullying tactics employed qatar. emir kuwait warned two weeks ago prolonged crisis could trigger regional international intervention would destroy gcc. "nobody wants responsible death gcc," said dr mehran kamrava, director center regional international studies georgetown university qatar. "the gcc almost certainly survive crisis, less meaningful form now," said interview doha last week. many scenarios suggested happens next, including suspending qatar's gcc membership feud resolved, expelling group, creating new grouping gulf arab states, minus qatar. would acknowledge gcc already effectively fractured three groups. first, saudi-emirati-bahraini group uses threats, sanctions, war get way. second, omani-kuwaiti group remains neutral current crisis, worries consequences saudi-emirati-led assault qatar. third qatar itself, whose future political, military, economic relations vastly diffused reoriented include greater links countries beyond gcc. already happened rapid responses offset impact siege forging closer ties turkey , iran states. {articleguid} harsh nature siege moves qatar, corresponding nasty, condescending tone saudi-emirati propaganda attacks make difficult arab state fully trust governments enter meaningful agreements. yet modern history arab region suggests concerns politely papered favour face-saving moves show forget forgive misdeeds past carry normal life nothing happened past five months. first test gcc states deal awkwardly-scheduled december gcc summit kuwait, cannot convene normal fashion current situation. six gcc member states likely find temporary solution, postponing summit meeting level lower heads state kuwaiti-hosted mediation nobody today wants gcc collapse. collapse would change much wider set military, economic, political strategic relationships non-arab states countries like qatar, kuwait, oman , yemen, perhaps even jordan . expanded turkish military base qatar significantly enhanced commercial trade iran hint could happen wider scale, current trends persist. would complement already advanced moves qatar ensure self-sufficiency food essential items, thus reducing links neighbouring saudi arabia uae. would signal death noble dream gcc collective march security prosperity, happened yet, appears imminent. without meaningful compromises enforceable agreements end assault qatar agree new mechanisms genuine collective security well-being, gcc doomed. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author rami g khouri rami g khouri senior public policy fellow issam fares institute american university beirut. @ ramikhouri middle east gcc qatar saudi arabia united arab emirates
members popular mobilisation units (pmus) hold portrait quds force commander major general qassem suleimani [reuters/thaier al-sudani] kurdish aspirations independence iraq faced obstinate resistance regional international actors favoured territorial integrity iraq. rationale stance independence kurdistan would undermine stability iraq. regardless whether predictions right wrong, iraq's one stable region dragged persistent endemic instability rest country. political impasse arose intra-kurdish conflict baghdad's aggressive policy controlling borders drove iraqi kurdistan swiftly turbulence. conditions kurdish region exacerbated newly imposed sanctions negotiations 2018 iraqi budget, deepen ongoing economic crisis. persistence international regional powers' "one-iraq" policy evidently resulted emergence "two-iran" reality middle east. increasing iranian influence baghdad throughout fight islamic state iraq levant ( isil , also known isis) concluded tehran's proxies dominating country's "disputed areas" kurdistan proper. fair claim future iraq hands iran today, rather regional and/or international actor. probably surprised many decisive role head iran's quds force (a unit islamic revolutionary guard corps, irgc), qassem suleimani, played iraqi forces' intervention kirkuk two days us president donald trump imposed new set sanctions irgc "its support terrorism". also quite surreal hear us secretary state rex tillerson declare "iranian militias iraq [need] go home" week iranian-backed popular mobilization units (pmus) first entered took control kirkuk united states stood indifferent, supportive . baghdad's response tillerson clarified expanding borders iranian power iraq: baghdad acknowledged suleimani's role " military advisor" pmus declared "no country interfere iraq's affairs ". light us-backed developments saudi arabia directly target iran allies region, curious washington chose abandon kurds leave iraqi political space wide open tehran. us, peace means territorial integrity essential remind everyone us never succeeded brokering durable peace agreement conflicts middle east - even presidents jimmy carter barack obama awarded nobel peace prize efforts end. us registered relative success containing conflicts within given territories. safeguarding existing political borders middle east us' foremost priority, "stability" peace agreements would bring defined merely state territorial integrity. {articleguid} washington's reaction towards crisis broke middle east due arab spring therefore exception. since cross-border nature arab spring motivated masses was, else, threat existing political borders, us international community whole tried maintain "stability" reinforcing territorial integrity state and/or continuing support dictatorial regimes. regard, fair claim isil designated global threat merely brutal acts. international coalition formed isil "abolished" political borders syria iraq establishing control contiguous stretch territory. end, fight isil attempt contain conflict within iraq syria safeguarding existing political borders, nothing more. remarkable effort establish peace post-isil era; attempt rebuild former status quo actually triggered emergence isil. cornering kurds, boosting iran today, evidently kurds' turn pushed back proper place within existing political borders. arab spring, long-standing kurdish "problem" remained domestic issue turkey , syria, iraq iran. war syria rise isil transformed kurdish issue regional one, existing political borders cut kurdish territory vanished. wake existential transformation, fruitless struggle democratic rights shifted struggle defence kurdistan paved way kurdish aspirations either independent autonomous self-rule. and, us was, fact, important contributor process even never supported publicly either kurdish desires. {articleguid} us supported kurds iraq syria take control 210km iraqi-syrian border. furthermore, us encouraged iraqi syrian kurds cooperate, instance kobane 2014, even initiated meetings duhok erbil build political military partnership kurdistan regional government (krg) rojava administration. context, contradictory us attitudes towards recent developments iraq indeed revision broader contradictory policy concerning role wake new kurdish political equilibrium middle east. kurds - iraq elsewhere - interpreted us overreaction kurdish referendum sign go beyond allotted boundaries . syrian kurds, us actions signalled perhaps timing wrong us decision. worth noting intention merely maintaining stability iraq, us could easily managed kurdish referendum process peaceful manner. krg president time, masoud barzani repeatedly highlighted referendum mean actual declaration independence, expression kurdish will. us, however, preferred trigger tensions eventually paved way greater iranian influence iraq also sit back watch destruction krg presidency. yet krg far gained symbolic representation value capacity name kurds beyond iraqi kurdistan's borders. consequently, doubtful whether would possible push kurdish issue back existing political borders. clear, however, political catastrophe iraq indicates failure kurds also us policy middle east. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. inside story end kurdish leader masoud barzani? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5629180290001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author arzu yilmaz dr arzu yilmaz chair department international relations american university kurdistan. kurds iran iraq syria's civil war united states
forza italia party leader silvio berlusconi gestures speaks rally catania, italy november 2 [reuters/antonio parrinello] problems held italy grips decades serious, complex, and, many, seemingly insurmountable. amid widespread unemployment, corruption, public debt, economic decline, social instability, even tragic football defeats, italians thought least one dark chapter italian history definitively closed: silvio berlusconi . oh, wrong. four-time italian prime minister, expelled parliament 2011, re-entered political arena. regional elections sicily, backed right-wing candidate, helped win, preparing run italy ' general elections next year. sounds absurd you, well, is. despite famous bunga bunga parties sex scandals, numerous accusations corruption tax fraud, seems berlusconi back italian politics, might actually real chance winning. how, despite expulsion parliament, able return political scene? politically resilient? italy soft spot him? capitalising current situation filling political void? berlusconi, 'sacrificial lamb' berlusconi convicted tax fraud 2013 and, result, forbidden running office least 2019. appealed sentence european court human rights hoping ruling would enable return politics. credit must given credit due: berlusconi knows choose collaborators, especially lawyers, know find, tangle various legislative systems, loopholes even serious accusations " miraculously " taken care of. {articleguid} beyond machinations, one needs impressive level imagination come idea reviving berlusconi, currently investigated mafia-related case. this, despite fact that, part, international press views berlusconi guilty used (and ruined) italy purely personal gain. persists presenting innocent victim used scapegoat. anche #silvio berlusconi guerra contro il tradizionale agnello pasquale, con una foto. che ne pensate? #animali https://t.co/t4qhcre7qk pic.twitter.com/gmgdwfcyxi — itenovas (@itenovas) april 10, 2017 went far using catholic symbol "the sacrificial lamb" bizarre attempts rebrand himself. last april, italian media film young partner francesca pascale bottle-feeding lambs saved culled easter. even declared vegetarian. words, so-called political " absence", berlusconi absent. carefully working cleaning image regaining political strength, waiting right moment sneak attack italy's political scene. occasion presented regional elections sicily , took place november 6. winner post-fascist politician nello musumeci - head coalition three political factions: forza italia (forward italy, berlusconi ' party), xenophobic lega nord (northern league, led matteo salvini), fratelli ' italia (brothers italy, neo-fascist party presided giorgia meloni). coalition promoted centre-right, little " centrist", given salvini meloni make effort hide allegiance national front marine le pen france . berlusconi presents mediating figure, pragmatic man capable containing controlling neofascist xenophobic forces menacing italy europe times crisis. " moderates won, " declared, though really saying alone won. ' partly true. berlusconi's new enemies despite advanced age, berlusconi lost extraordinary gift persuasion. unparalleled skill talk "from gut", exploiting fears hopes listeners making feel simple answers difficult questions (even claims little foundation facts distorted will). guaranteed success decades political acumen picking right enemy right time. today real enemy longer matteo renzi, troubled years ago brilliant oratorical skills now, resigned prime minister december 2016, failed form unified left. {articleguid} berlusconi particularly concerned left which, despite nominally power, displays remarkable inability initiate dialogue voters propose working solutions. real enemies two: movimento 5 stelle (the five star movement) people don't want vote. symptoms italy's public jaded traditional parties politics threaten successful return political scene. sicily, five star movement, founded 2009 italian comedian beppe grillo, highest percentage vote single party (34.7 percent, total vote berlusconi's coalition guaranteed majority small fraction. movement attracts disappointed voters left right. elections, 50 percent eligible voters chose go polls. berlusconi taken immediate care "lost sheep", welcoming herd electorate. resurrected old refrains, like one abolishing tax family's first house ensuring minimum retirement pension 1000 euros. promise "peaceful revolution change state system roots" works well disappointed, "orphaned" voters left right bother moderates. berlusconi seems successful again. numerous left-leaning voters always visceral resistance him, started considering voting avoid return fascism, anti-europeanism xenophobia. words, plan side lesser evil. sad reality italy, despite glorious past, "great beauty" landscape cultural social patrimony, getting poorer poorer. worst sign misery lack hopes alternatives. await 2018 general elections, let's remember well-known dantean warning: "abandon hope, ye enter here" (inferno, canto iii, line 9). views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author silvia mazzini silvia mazzini postdoctoral research fellow university arts berlin. politics italy europe
posters depicting lebanon's prime minister saad al-hariri, resigned post, line street beirut. inscription poster says 'we you' [reuters/mohamed azakir] week surprise resignation saad hariri broadcast saudi-owned al-arabiyya riyadh, lebanon stopped asking started demanding release. lebanese president michel aoun called circumstances disappearance "ambiguous mysterious" asked saudi arabia clarification. meetings foreign ambassadors, gone declared hariri "kidnapped" . become clear hariri planning short visit riyadh scheduled return lebanon weekend. set appear first time tonight interview riyadh. spoke habib ephrem, president syriac league lebanon secretary-general levant encounter, think-tank known close president aoun. showed entry calendar last week titled "11:30am hariri" scheduled monday, november 6. received call office prime minister saturday, november 4, hours hariri resigned front al-arabiya's cameras. clearly, even team beirut knew going on. hariri seems stuck riyadh, like another head government, abd-rabbu mansour hadi, yemen's president , reportedly allowed leave saudi capital months. posturing riyadh, fear beirut country might facing proxy war, like one yemen . lebanese 'a herd sheep' according latest reports , saudi arabia took decision hariri's resignation "he unwilling confront hezbollah". handed resignation speech waiting see crown prince mohammed bin salman . also rumours saudi arabia setting stage saad's older brother, bahaa, replace him, demanded members hariri family go riyadh pledge allegiance. comes armed confrontation hezbollah, unlikely party lebanon would willing participate. interior minister nohad machnouq scathing response asked issue: "[the lebanese not] herd sheep plot land whose ownership transferred one person another. lebanon's democratic system based elections, simple pledge allegiance." clearly, latest developments assault lebanon's sovereignty one widely condemned lebanon, except hardline supporters saudi arabia. include former justice minister ashraf rifi, sunni strongman tripoli, well samir geagea, leader christian party lebanese forces, found "timing" resignation surprising substance it. saudi escalation lebanon thursday, saudi arabia, uae , kuwait bahrain urged citizens leave beirut, given kingdom's accusation lebanon declared war saudi arabia. first time travel ban issued. february 2016, saudi arabia undertook similar evacuation aftermath attack saudi embassy tehran. riyadh's justification move lebanon failed "to condemn iran's aggression". {articleguid} tensions later subsided, especially presidential settlement brought aoun presidency hariri premiership. but, time, lebanese citizens worried evacuation saudi citizens could followed economic - possibly military - escalation. also ever-present israeli threat renewed aggression lebanon; israeli officials talking another conflict hezbollah even latest crisis. now, iran already ally lebanon well-armed ready. question whether saudi arabia intends confront hezbollah militarily, leading yemen-like situation. move would devastating effect country millions syrian palestinian refugees hosting. given human catastrophes syria yemen incessant turmoil iraq , pushing conflict lebanon would unleash whole new level chaos, destruction death region. lebanon want war widely watched political show last thursday, saudi analyst offended lebanese public hurling threats insults lebanon, even going far accusing lebanese president speaker terrorists. lebanese reacted anger accusations social media, leading justice minister salim jreissati ask general prosecutor investigate case crime contempt criminal libel president, speaker, foreign minister lebanese army. {articleguid} saudi intention behind resignation formation strong anti-hezbollah coalition would spearhead escalation party lebanon, result would satisfy riyadh. far, clear display "national unity" signalling importance preserving stability avoiding another war. fact, clear options saudi arabia event decision full-blown confrontation. sure, many supporters. however, comes armed confrontation hezbollah, unlikely party lebanon would willing participate. now, say hezbollah enjoys national backing. contrary, one thing become clearer hezbollah unable continue policy involvement conflicts outside lebanon's borders without drawing ire saudi arabia arab states. samir geagea point called party withdraw regional conflicts serious support hariri. far, lebanese public made clear "appetite" military showdown hezbollah. also become crystal clear lebanon want part another armed conflict, want led confrontation someone else's behalf. civil war 1975-1990 enough. decades israeli aggression wars. cooler heads need prevail. choice. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. inside story lebanese pm saad hariri still saudi arabia? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5642929571001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author halim shebaya halim shebaya beirut-based political analyst multi-disciplinary researcher. @ halimshebaya lebanon hezbollah saudi arabia iran yemen
israel's occupation jerusalem illegal international law [getty images] late october, israeli ministerial committee legislation set vote "greater jerusalem" bill. passed, would presented knesset floor several readings, vote whether legislate it. israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu previously stated would support it, giving serious political force backing. vote postponed following requests clarification various aspects bill us administration. bill, suggested title, would expand municipal boundaries jerusalem include four major illegal settlements many smaller ones municipal jurisdiction jerusalem. settlements, ma'ale adumim, givat ze'ev, betar illit efrat, part gush etzion settlement block stretches jerusalem hebron. although legislators claim areas full israeli sovereignty, move would certainly amount de facto annexation. part parcel "facts ground" strategy israel pursuing since 1967, occupied west bank, gaza golan heights, annexing east jerusalem declaring whole jerusalem capital israel. israeli settlement building territories occupied 1967 undeniably illegal international law forbids transfer occupying power's population territories acquired war conflict. however, today, israeli government ceased expansion west bank population illegal settlers today well half million. bill's supporters motivated israeli obsession demographics. annexation east jerusalem also unequivocally recognised unlawful. two-state framework, east jerusalem would constitute capital palestinian state colonis ation continuously condemned much international community. yet little effecti today 200,000 israeli settlers living east jerusalem, demolitions palestinian homes appropriation palestinian land daily occurrence. bill's supporters motivated israeli obsession demographics. idea ensure jewish israelis maintain dominant majority every part historic palestine. jerusalem, approach specifically used counter international discourse city belongs palestinians israelis assert jerusalem "undivided capital jewish people". minister transport intelligence israel katz heavily promoting bill, stated move "ensure jewish majority" city. {articleguid} indeed, proposed bill also exclude palestinian neighbourhoods kufr aqab, shuafat refugee camp anata currently exist beyond separation wall. placing sub - municipality, would remove census statistically reduce palestinian population "greater jerusalem" 100,000. beyond gerrymandering, bill would yet make clear statement international law apply israel. palestinians, simply continuation lived reality accelerating settler colonial project. palestinians east jerusalem already subjected oppressive regime considered permanent residents citizens. status residents dependent whether prove centre life jerusalem. means constant risk residency permits revoked, mention denial citizenship therefore full rights. potential repercussions residents palestinian neighbourhoods downgraded sub-municipalities clear, bill pass, situation would undoubtedly worsen. surprising israel attempting annex land west bank . perhaps surprising however, continuous demand international community palestinians put faith international law, institutions processes. israel continuously flouts international law repercussions sanctions. indeed, word "sanctions" barely whispered diplomatic policy circles accusations bias towards israel made. question palestinians thus remains: far far? west bank belligerent occupation 50 years, east jerusalem golan heights annexed long, gaza placed crippling siege 10 years, refugees exile nearly seven decades palestinian citizens israel continue subjected systematic oppression. palestinians reached "too far" long time ago; time international community catch up. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. inside story israel imposing 'apartheid' palestinians? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5361694681001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author yara hawari yara hawari palestine policy fellow al-shabaka, palestinian policy network. @ yarahawari middle east israeli–palestinian conflict politics israel jerusalem
peacekeeper un interim force lebanon stands near poster depicting lebanon's hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah southern lebanon [reuters/ali hashisho] blaming iran hezbollah "sowing strife" region, lebanese prime minister saad hariri resigned saturday visit saudi arabia . following day saudis accused "iran-backed hezbollah" behind firing missile towards capital riyadh, calling "an act war". regional divide iran saudi arabia widens, lebanon suddenly found front lines. escalation brewing time now, intensification could already detected week earlier series laws passed us house representatives. among bill mobilised international law's human shields clause deepen us sanctions hezbollah. bill, however, much simply expand sanctions thus understood within context changes us foreign policy us president donald trump . introduced republican representative mike gallagher, "sanctioning hizballah's illicit use civilians defenseless shields act," stipulates "the mere placement military assets vicinity civilians fulfils [the international law's] requirement" war crimes. provides brief history israel's wars lebanon, claiming since 1980s many civilian houses public facilities south lebanon beirut used hezbollah conceal weapons. echoing report published israeli think-tank, bill goes note 2006 war israel , hezbollah forces deployed "human shields protect counterattacks israeli forces." finally, observes "a recent state department report cites israeli estimates hizballah [sic] stockpile 100,000 rockets missiles, including advanced anti-air anti-ship missiles. president trump, prime minister netanyahu crown prince mohammed bin salman outliers, scrambling, were, find new weapons unravel iran deal. "the missiles principally provided iranian government concealed shi'ite villages southern lebanon, often beneath civilian infrastructure." this, bill stresses, violation un security council resolution 1701, calls hezbollah's disarmament. bill requires president "identify impose sanctions foreign people entities affiliated hizballah determines used civilians human shields provided, tried provide, facilitated provision material support terrorist group." two points particularly noteworthy bill. first, israel's signature everywhere. bill's rationale deepening sanctions hezbollah's potential threat israel citizens rather united states . information hezbollah's weapons ostensible use shielding strategies supplied israeli intelligence, which, shown elsewhere , played crucial role spreading accusation human shielding region. {articleguid} second, unprecedented use human shields foreign policy tool duplicitous character. even one take bill's human shielding argument face value, hezbollah's alleged use human shields new, apparent political reason add new layer sanctions organisation historical juncture. close reading bill reveals main target actually iran lebanese ally. use human shields argument house representatives deepen sanctions must understood within context international consensus - includes us israeli militaries - iran deal good islamic republic fulfilling obligations towards deal. president trump, prime minister netanyahu crown prince mohammed bin salman outliers, scrambling, were, find new weapons unravel iran deal. time supporters house pulled international law's human shield clause hat. objective inject new moral argument iran, one insinuates islamic republic promotes violation laws war therefore deal's fifteen-year prohibition enriching uranium engaging in, research on, spent fuel reprocessing insufficient. human shields thus put use warmongers wish open door military confrontation. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. authors nicola perugini nicola perugini lecturer school social political science, university edinburgh. @ perugininic neve gordon neve gordon leverhulme visiting fellow soas, university london. @ nevegordon hezbollah united states israel iran lebanon
saudi arabia's crown prince mohammed bin salman sits allegiance pledging ceremony mecca, saudi arabia june 21, 2017 [reuters] you've got admire mohammed bin salman's stamina drive. ambitious, adrenaline-pumped young prince fighting major war next door, instigating diplomatic crises abroad cracking powerful detractors home. yet still finds time curtail influence religious establishment chart future vision saudi arabia 2030 beyond. reaching far? well, there's rationality rashness, certain dogma drives drama. lay acts scenes short career, you'll notice policies anything random. soon king salman took reigns power kingdom january 2015, appointed young son close adviser, mohammed, post minister defence. two months job, mohammed bin salman (mbs) made mark international scene. act - it's good day start war mbs led arab coalition attempt dislodge iranian-supported houthi rebels yemeni capital, sanaa, march 2015. one month later, son rewarded made deputy crown prince, second line throne. here's script: step 1: consolidate power step 2: head internal controversy capitalising regional fault lines stoking conflict abroad. step 3: repeat. following two years, war wreaked havoc yemen , raining death destruction upon saudi arabia's impoverished neighbour. rewards kept piling mbs. influence grew 80-year-old dad, king, delegated new authority economic, social foreign policy affairs son. clear racing throne. remained one major obstacle. time another bold move within saudi royal family. time another diversionary tactic, win-win move. act ii - it's good day start crisis early june 2017, mbs, along crown prince uae, mohammed bin zayed, manufactured new gulf crisis. time, took aim fellow gulf arab royal, hacking qatar's official news agency planting false statements attributed qatari emir, sheikh tamim bin hamad al thani . soon after, saudi arabia united arab emirates began all-out diplomatic, political, economic public relations assault gulf partner, help bahrain egypt, continues threaten existence gulf cooperation council (gcc). {articleguid} two weeks crisis, cousin, prince mohammed bin nayef, removed royal decree mbs elevated crown prince. ensure silence, once-powerful interior minister put house arrest, causing jitters kingdom dissatisfaction royal family. reactions muffled shrieks manufactured patriotism deployed qatar . mbs charge saudi arabia's defence forces well internal security. achieve total dominance levers security country, needed direct control national guard, strong force made saudi tribes. decades, national guard hands two men only: abdullah bin abdulaziz and, took turn king 2005, son, miteb. act iii - night great purge november 3, saad hariri , dual saudi-lebanese citizen prime minister lebanon lured riyadh audience royals. november 4, declared resignation saudi tv channel, condemned coalition partner, hezbollah , threatened "cut hands" backer, iran . voice face hariri's, words objectives saudi. shock turned suspicion, mbs moved depose detain cousin miteb, along dozens princes present former ministers, pretext fighting corruption. matter few, short days, mbs outmanoeuvred detractors consolidated grip power. again, cunningly diverted saudis drama, manufactured real, personal gain. again, rise came hefty cost: distress neighbours, partners, family. trump effect none would conceivable doable without tacit approval saudi arabia's major ally, united states . president barack obama supported saudi adventure yemen contain iran's influence, authorised greater intelligence logistical support kingdom. all, obama administration sold saudi arabia $115bn weapons. obama came see folly saudi-iranian sectarian proxy wars end tenure, advising protagonists " share " region context "cold peace", successor eager saudis build regional coalition iran proxies. bizarre may obama advise sharing region two authoritarian regimes achieve peace, president donald trump's egging saudi escalation iranian influence worse. plays straight "salman doctrine" muscular foreign policy iranian influence iraq , syria, lebanon, yemen, gulf, incalculable costs region. trump agreed rather enthusiastically sell additional $110bn "beautiful" us weapons kingdom, secured hundreds billions dollars saudi investment commitments us economy. end trump's visit riyadh may, salmans side. committed modernise kingdom support trump's "ultimate deal" israel , palestinians, arab states. so, following month, @realdonaldtrump rushed tweet support saudi arabia qatar, displeasure secretaries rex tillerson james mattis. and, last week, trump hurried support mbs' purge princes ministers, accusing "milking" saudi arabia. "they know exactly doing", trump tweeted, salmans could wrong. great confidence king salman crown prince saudi arabia, know exactly doing.... — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) november 6, 2017 'they know exactly doing.' really? war yemen, third year, end sight, violence, famine cholera epidemic continue wreak havoc country. drain kingdom's economy, security international standing, longer-range ballistic missiles yemen reaching saudi capital. meanwhile, saudi nemesis, iran, keen satisfied see yemen become riyadh's afghanistan . gulf crisis also backfired. saudi's international backers, including trump administration, insist diplomatic solution ends siege recognises qatar's sovereignty. likewise, western powers want saudi arabia respect lebanon's sovereignty, would like see prime minister hariri free go back lebanon. {articleguid} internally, situation, bad, remains precarious. purge pretext curbing corruption smart, populist move appealed many young saudis long complained it. wealth power move hands even fewer saudis, appeal "anti-corruption" campaign diminish fast. recipe tried number aspiring, junior leaders region pave way towards political succession. libya's saif al-islam al gaddafi, egypt's gamal mubarak syria's bashar al-assad , among others, made fight corruption terror central consolidation power. first two deposed, assad struggling rule devastated nation six years upheaval civil war. mbs share similar fate favoured sons? or, lead new, "modern" kingdom inspired "moderate islam" decades come? true machiavellian, mbs' gambit required great degrees arrogance, duplicity, indifference undo decades, even centuries, political social traditions within matter months. gamble might've worked now, ignorance history comes price. scheme establish new salman dynasty absolute monarchy thus far come expense saudi regional stability. unless curbs arrogance propelled top, may well lead downfall, sooner later. counting cost cost saudi arabia's purge function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5642823396001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author marwan bishara marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. @ marwanbishara mohammed bin salman saudi arabia donald trump middle east yemen
russian president vladimir putin shakes hands saudi deputy crown prince mohammed bin salman meeting kremlin may 30, 2017 [reuters/pavel golovkin] events unfolding riyadh indication saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman (mbs) like king, bumpy ride years ahead. shake-up decades-old saudi power consensus, well presumably forced resignation saad hariri riyadh, mean mbs seeks recognition authority domestically internationally. commentators dubbed "the vladimir putin middle east" referring bold moves changing power equilibrium kingdom bringing saudi "oligarchs". russia-saudi rapprochement recent months arguably became possible precisely russian president vladimir putin mbs speak language. prefer use hard power resolve issues domestically internationally see world black white. since mbs empowered father, king salman, early 2015, saudi foreign policy undergoing russia-style transformation embracing full-on offensive character. yemen war, qatar blockade and, finally, saudi arabia's alleged role recent lebanese developments seem borrowed putin's playbook. russian president arguably politician brought realpolitik back fashion, military campaign syria series hybrid involvements former soviet republics. region power balance increasingly changing, saudi arabia sees need stay alert pro-active, putin's revisionist policies strongly resonate leadership riyadh. mbs using putin's strategy guidebook, wrong. putin mbs similar approach foreign policy, different starting points. leadership facing serious challengers home, putin afford long-term strategy carrot stick. mohammed bin salman, foreign policy is, large extent, dictated need cement power domestically soon possible. russian saudi politics similar leadership cults play enormous role nation building. power projection domestically globally factor determines acceptance legitimacy leader. putin spent years carefully building public image (to point approval rating 80 percent years now), assertive foreign policy, whether one likes not, made russia country whose opinion cannot dismissed. increasingly looks mbs set establish similar footing rule likely last decades. doubt putin mbs products power system tried rein in. putin rose russia's unruly power vertical 1990s; sought take control throughout 2000s, battling unruly business oligarchy, succeeded. likewise, mbs beneficiary royal consensus system rule; father, king salman, took saudi throne, patiently waiting turn. {articleguid} process taking huge family-based apparatus (incidentally, russia's oligarchic system was, point, also called "the family") started saudi crown prince, already see led russia, years fight fought. oligarchs either coopted political system exiled, corruption permeated spheres life even deeper. however, mbs using putin's strategy guidebook, wrong. forcibly eliminating influential family members power equation, young prince dismantling system consensus rule, something allowed saudi arabia maintain careful balance keep kingdom together decades. mbs is, fact, looking install governing system based uncontested power, page putin's playbook, but, unlike russian president, saudi crown prince ruining equilibrium helped kingdom maintain stability. instead creating class royal elites unconditionally loyal monarch, mbs risks alienating see legitimate right chunk power pie kingdom. crown prince, aspiring patriarch sorts longer views descendants ibn saud equals, creating enormous class royalty feel disadvantaged thus united rejection new status quo. {articleguid} rejection, however, brewing deep inside elites won't show transforms dissent. explains mbs-led shake-up riyadh indiscriminate targeting, disproportionate stated goals, probably aimed preventing dissent appearing rather targeting dissident specifically. marks key difference mbs putin. russian president good sense underlying domestic power dynamics easily reigns them. created political system branches "the family" pitted acts referee them. power structure, individual political clans seek proximity leader compete putin's attention favour. thus, power players remain focused squabbles would challenge top power pyramid crumbles, bring everyone, including dissenters. mbs looking establish different system, essentially equally weakening branches house saud maintain power them. set-up, however, guarantee level stability perhaps able maintain longevity regime. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. counting cost cost saudi arabia's purge function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5642823396001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author yury barmin yury barmin expert russian international affairs council covering middle east north africa. @ russia_mideast mohammed bin salman saudi arabia vladimir putin russia yemen
october 31 rare protest capital eritrea, asmara [reuters/thomas mukoya] amid standard heavy military presence regime's ban associations gatherings, asmara experienced unusual protest october 31. widely shared video clips captured mobile phones shown, demonstrators eritrea's capital city day met gunshots violence government forces. asmara regime rarely acknowledges incidents unless get control. apparently realising it's impossible conceal widely shared, eritrean minister information yemane gebremeskel instead chose downplay incident, tweeting " small demonstration one school asmara dispersed without casualty, hardly breaking news". november 4, opinion piece appeared official organs ministry information claimed demonstrators " group teenagers" chanting "allahu akbar". citing opposition leader based addis ababa, ethiopia, international media reported least 28 people killed attack asmara 100 injured. human rights watch stated, "there clear evidence anyone killed protest" . really happened day? school protest part continued centralisation power control, eritrean ministry education recently sent official letter three schools asmara run religious institutions. stating religious institutions spiritual duties leave public services state, letter states schools run coptic orthodox church, catholic church, islamic school officially transformed state schools beginning academic year, schools report directly respective school districts. letter also instructs schools comply state education system follow similar guidelines. case al diaa islamic school, holds 3,000 students, state education standard meant ban headscarf halt religious education. order prompted surge disapproval respective schools. {articleguid} response state's attempt nationalise al diaa islamic school, hajji musa mohammednur, respected senior citizen president board school, gave impassioned speech parents teachers meeting, openly saying state refrain interference. october 22, state security arrested mohammednur . parents teachers demanded release similarly taken custody. tension rose october 31, substantial number parents, teachers community members gathered school premises headed office president demand release mohammednur others. demonstrators reportedly dispersed anti-mob special forces office president. aftermath shocked protest, president isaias afwerki security apparatus responding brutally crackdown protest, possible permanently discourage others undertaking demonstrations future. immediate precaution, one military zonal operations, rapid action force, deployed asmara. locals observed heavy artillery deployed outskirts asmara. directive passed watch certain neighbourhoods asmara cities eritrea considered likely see eruptions. {articleguid} series round-ups arrests made asmara. radio medrek - opposition radio station based germany - reported november 4, hundreds people arrested connection demonstration. report adds young students taken secondary schools subjected extreme physical torture asmara's infamous prison facilities. mosques asmara cities observing unusual "new faces". youth population relatively loose control, colleges biggest potential spark unrest, result, security doubled. internet cafes, majority eritreans access internet (which intentionally kept low speed), continuous scrutiny. standard rumour mills, regime trying paint whole development purely religion-driven particularly linked islam. attempted frame january 2013 military mutiny. none two separate incidents slightest signs fundamentalism particular religious links. changing landscape years now, president afwerki successfully crushing forms dissidence extensive military security apparatuses. managed either degrade suppress subordinates order scare loyalty, pushed rest corrupt activities order wield threat potential blackmail. asmara incident triggering schizophrenic reactions state well ramped-up militarisation. old story, occurred past government exploited excuse squeeze tight vice repression. yet, also confirms power gun much intimidate population pushed edge. recent demonstration similar earlier incidents also suggest opposition become decentralised, ordinary people becoming emboldened face armed repression. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author abraham zere abraham zere executive director pen eritrea exile. @ abraham_zere africa eritrea
november 4, saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman launched campaign corruption arresting number ministers members royal family [reuters/hamad mohammed] latest developments unfolded riyadh unsettling carry high risk regional confrontation. assertive saudi crown prince determined consolidate power purging dissidents home escalating rhetoric abroad. diversionary approach, seemingly employed shift attention away domestic turmoil, challenging emboldened iranian regime whose armed proxies strengthening hold levant yemen . circumstances tantamount imminent war scenario riyadh tehran, indications might actually case. november 4, within span hours, two major events took place: lebanese prime minister saad hariri announced resignation riyadh challenge iranian-backed hezbollah saudi defence forces intercepted long-range missile heading yemen towards kingdom's capital. saudi arabia initially pointed finger houthis closed yemen's land, sea air borders political narrative changed november 6. saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir said "it iranian missile, launched hezbollah, territory occupied houthis yemen". day, another saudi minister affirmed riyadh treat lebanese cabinet "as government declaring war saudi arabia due aggression hezbollah". four reasons saudi statements taken face value. first, riyadh setting sights weakest links tehran's orbit: lebanon yemen, instead consequential iraq syria. lebanon known consociational system making political headway country unlikely. lebanese allies saudi arabia aware riyadh intervene help event confrontation hezbollah . yemen, 33 months war, human material damage done lead altering country's territorial control map. {articleguid} second, saudi rhetoric match kingdom's foreign policy stance. two saudi ambassadors iraq lebanon appointed last week, showing willingness engage. october 25, saudi arabia iran finally agreed swiss government go-between consular diplomatic services , breaking diplomatic ties early 2016 . riyadh returned iraq long absence, hoping increase political influence explore new market. military confrontation iran counterproductive saudi engagement iraq. syria , saudi arabia keeping low profile influence restricted elements exiled civilian opposition. third, confrontation iran's interest now. iranian regime, united since president hassan rouhani 's reelection may, focused reaping economic benefits nuclear deal preserving gains made syria. mohammad ali jafari, commander iran's revolutionary guard, announced october 31 iran restricting long-range missiles 2,000km, reach israel us interests middle east . move meant reassure european countries beyond missile range. russian president vladimir putin , visited tehran november 1, convinced tehran tone rhetoric us. russia focused advancing political solution syria, iran sees syrian war even defeating islamic state iraq levant wary us-russian deal might come expense iranian interests region. {articleguid} finally, ambivalent us policy giving saudi arabia leeway escalate rhetoric iran ; however, turning blind eye saudi's escapades likely last long washington. seems be, again, policy differences white house us establishment. president donald trump remarked november 5 "a shot taken iran, opinion, saudi arabia", state department noted november 7 "full determination" yet launched missile. state department pentagon also distancing saudi campaign lebanon reiterating us support lebanese government armed forces. importantly, us military posture middle east embracing military confrontation iran, whether directly via proxies. contrary, syrian regime allies currently final phase controlling al-boukamal crossing damascus-baghdad highway, russia us seem coordinating share control deir az zor, syrian province border iraq. saudi leadership likely tone rhetoric contains fallout domestic purge. white house give riyadh latitude while, pressure grow washington prevent regional escalation. iran expectedly reserved reaction prefers risk regional gains impromptu confrontation. us contain situation, unintended consequences might follow. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author joe macaron joe macaron policy analyst arab center washington dc. @ macaronjoe middle east saudi arabia iran politics mohammed bin salman
president jacob zuma gestures addresses parliament cape town, south africa [reuters/sumaya hisham] last weeks, attention focused south african president jacob zuma usual release explosive new book - president's keepers, jacques pauw. book details extraordinary ways zuma's alleged corruption enabled criminals spies. chilling read - unsurprisingly - pauw come considerable pressure aftermath publication. state security agency threatened ban book, result, pirated copies flooded social media accounts many south africans eager know defy authorities' desires squash important story. pauw's book enjoyed strong support south africans races. black white people equally incensed - middle classes data money buy book generally supportive efforts. still, pauw's book launch tiny johannesburg suburb past week, looming question racism couldn't ignored. large crowd - thousand people said attended - predominantly white. many black people attendance felt uncomfortable. quanitaah hunter, journalist sunday times, widely read south african weekend paper, there. shortly launch, hunter posted message social media noted felt "a smug sense 'see happens put blacks charge'." suggested white people attending launch, motivation attending, indeed reading book, suspect. contents book, suggested, used "justify racism anti-black sentiment." familiar daily life south africa , surprise. recent years racial tensions run high. range high-profile incidents white arrogance racism, sent shockwaves across country black people done much demonstrate forgiveness collective racism white population oppressed long. fearless prominent anti-corruption campaigners democratic era whites. many black south africans hoped end apartheid would signal end white privilege, disheartened way race relations unfolded post-apartheid period. disappointment compounded fact economic social systems made black south africans poor remain firmly place. townships black people forced live apartheid remain largely removed centres economic activity whites live. surprise whites continue occupy disproportionate space economic affairs: wide-scale change takes time. yet attitudes behaviours many whites led sort disillusionment voiced hunter. many black south africans hoped truth reconciliation commission (trc) would inspire white compatriots eschew sort racism colours corruption debate. white south africans attended pauw's book launch, state governance emblematic failure black people manage affairs country. them, government corruption simply linked dangers political party enjoyed kind super-majority anc since longer banned. see zuma's scandals allegations corruption trail him, function race: jacob zuma corrupt, black. {articleguid} jacques pauw's book imply racial connection all. book meticulously documented covers much ground previously reported. joins dots around previously public information, bolstering new evidence, without resorting stereotype. still, would foolhardy suggest discussions corruption south africa - spiked volume excesses president zuma friends family become outrageous - race neutral. journalists like pauw - track corruption post-apartheid era - may simply jobs, stories land public domain already deeply divided across racial lines. many journalists black, change way larger narrative race mismanagement framed. problem unique south africa course - yet country's history, challenge especially close surface. political commentators begun question black officials - rather (often) white people corrupt - scrutiny press . case point coverage important new book - apartheid guns money hennie van vuuren michael marchant. book received far less press president keepers. however, less deeply researched, importantly; shows extent white south african billionaires paid money apartheid regime return favours. easy forget south african state apartheid deeply corrupt - simply moral sense. apartheid, rot racial economic nature. pauw's book published time white south africans mobilising new ways. organising ostensibly basis effect zuma country, hard view concern motivated self-interest outsized sense importance country importance longer guaranteed merely virtue skin colour. {articleguid} april year, many white people took streets value currency fell due market jitters related poor governance. general, black south africans pointed avoidance rallies. suggested whites collectively prepared protest effects government corruption poorest black citizens, withhold support #zumamustfall campaigns. president unfit office, many believe, demise cannot come basis racist ideas black people's capabilities. crowd gathered listen pauw, curious thing happened along sidelines massive book launch last week. members audience broken away ruling party - chief protagonists book - asked autograph book. happened black south africans. cheered patted back white compatriots. cynics suggest brave south africans seen exceptions. may case. still, served important reminder may tempted suggest inherent relationship africans poor governance. fearless prominent anti-corruption campaigners democratic era whites. people like thuli madonsela, former anti-corruption head, opposition leaders mmusi maimane, julius malema bantu holomisa, jointly took president court scandal involving presidential palace front lines challenging zuma's leadership. former anc insiders also broken ranks, church leaders various members civic groups spoken - good people, fierce opponents greed - black people. good news many south africans adamant neither corruption racism place society fought for. exposing corruption - pauw others done courage professionalism - yield results crimes white south africans global corportations thoroughly investigated debated whites black compatriots. then, president zuma keepers may little fear. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author sisonke msimang sisonke msimang south african writer political commentator focuses race, gender democracy. @ sisonkemsimang africa south africa jacob zuma corruption racism
general view drilling platform, first four oil platforms installed norway''s giant offshore johan sverdrup field [reuters/nerijus adomaitis] first time ever, government brought justice opening new areas oil gas extraction signing ratifying paris agreement. historic court case set begin oslo, norway , november 14. greenpeace norwegian environmental organisation nature youth challenging norwegian government court allowing oil companies drill new oil arctic. first time 20 years, government awarded oil licenses completely new area barents sea 13 oil companies, move violates country's constitution contravenes paris agreement. time lawsuit filed, un chief ban ki-moon said : " fate arctic tied fate miami, mumbai, shanghai [other] coastal cities ... arctic suffers, world feels pain. " beautifully worded description alarming reality facing: negative effect climate change arctic catastrophic consequences around world. yet, norwegian government sees fit exploit pristine vulnerable area, knowing emissions resulting new unburnable oil (oil cannot afford produce meet paris accord goals) detrimental effect arctic, worsen global effects climate change. time trial starts norway, fiji hosting united nations climate change conference, cop 23 bonn, germany , aiming continue work historic climate agreement struck paris two years ago. it's first time pacific island nation held presidency, presenting unique opportunity voices vulnerable states people centre decisions shape climate action. first time right healthy safe environment used court. pacific islands among small group nations particularly vulnerable climate change. cases, threat existential. pacific leaders calling end fossil fuel extraction, call far ignored governments continuing oil exploration efforts. call - specifically fossil fuel extraction new areas arctic - heard judge norwegian courtroom starting tuesday. judge hear norwegian government failed commitments made developed nation signing ratifying paris agreement. goals agreement met, fossil fuel production start decreasing, increasing. world's carbon budget broken add more. although norwegian government may hide reading document covers domestic emissions, paris agreement means much that. developed nations norway committed take lead efforts reflect highest possible ambitions. world also agreed aim reach global peak greenhouse gas emissions "as soon possible", keeping global average temperatures "well below" 2c pre-industrial levels, "pursue efforts" limit global warming 1.5c. {articleguid} allowing oil companies search develop oil arctic push peak future, add unburnable carbon reserves exacerbate climate change. therefore, opening new areas arctic drilling, norwegian government breaking commitment international law. it's important keep mind lawsuit future oil hasn't discovered yet. oil would hit market decade two. that's core problem. already discovered far fossil fuels afford burn, goals paris agreement fulfilled. burning reserves currently operating oil gas fields alone would take world beyond 1.5c. greenpeace isn't promoting "sudden death" fossil fuels, encouraging managed decline existing reserves complete ban new oil gas exploration absolutely necessary. heart court case also article 112 norwegian constitution. article explicitly grants people right safe healthy environment also safeguards rights future generations. places duty norwegian government uphold rights. {articleguid} constitution sits high laws; government action safeguarding rights . article 112 limits government do: cannot make decisions violate right healthy environment current future generations. believe norwegian government failed duty safeguard right opening new areas arctic oil drilling, worsen already catastrophic effects climate change. first time right healthy safe environment used court. around world, 90 countries constitutions similar stipulations, lawsuit help guide courts interpreting rights legal systems, inspire people hold governments account. winning case would leave millions barrels oil ground, could also set precedent future climate cases around world. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author truls gulowsen truls gulowsen head greenpeace norway. @ trulsgulowsen environment climate sos global warming norway europe
tanzanian president john pombe magufuli took power november 2015 [reuters/emmanuel herman] tanzania faring stewardship one john pombe magufuli past 24 months? short answer still usual dependably peaceful quiet selves, stubbornly refusing feed "africa headcase" narrative cost ourselves. take look around neighbourhood, imagine learned work image favour. keeps donors investors happy, importantly, means nobody trying learn kiswahili actually listen business. year thankful kenya - beloved sibling annoying rival - keeping together best can, far. held international press busy distracted, bless them. democratic republic congo , also considering flirtation voting, never republic indeed meaningfully democratic, we're living hope someday soon could happen. too, thankfully, similarly kept international press busy distracted. notice countries led sons former presidents, particular circumstance yet experience good old tanzania best avoid. like presidents real men land, village-born boys raised public schooling scholarships, boys grew long-suffering civil servants moulded dependable institution: state. back mwanza, largest city lake zone tanzania president john pombe magufuli chose celebrate first biennial november. interesting hear local opinions visit part country ancestral home us both. "peaceful" country default much design... president magufuli never lost heavy clunkiness sukuma accent. speeches interesting mellifluous honey-bell creole language, kiswahili. it, president usually sounds overly-excited, furious gauche. fair, tends little bit going given moment. main thoroughfare connecting mwanza city airport, bridge president magufuli formally opened stint city moving remoter parts impress villagers don't running water shine motorcade. bridge opened is, fact, pedestrian bridge, one ever seen puts light show night. many ways, one little thing indicative president magufuli 's leadership style far. flash. bang. also lot underwhelm. mean...a footbridge? {articleguid} said road hell paved good intentions. nobody good intentions tanzania president magufuli . presidential candidacy result spectacular fall-out within grand old party chama cha mapinduzi (party revolution - ccm), campaign magufuli unexpected made massive impression voting populace left credible choices. tanzanians like swing pendulum laissez-faire dirigiste styles governance, no-nonsense road-building efficiency came across well antidote predecessor's extreme relaxedness. true word, magufuli reforming. fearlessly jailed magnates big corrupt names, taxed living daylights tax-evading industries, scrubbed port dar-es-salaam almost-clean, name feats. civil service exorcised ghost workers people fake academic credentials. roads built, houses destroyed make room even roads built. ministers heads public institutions getting hired daily basis, also fired daily basis meet high expectations. less corruption certain kind. force applied. president magufuli thinks schoolgirls get pregnant cut right education free press threat "his" democracy. magufuli witnessed level harassment opposition unprecedented, culminating assassination attempt vocal lawyer constitutional rights defender tundu lissu shook nation right bone marrow. presence state security organs public gone comforting menacing. darkness creeping upon us. {articleguid} social contract unwritten tanzania there, abide it. never one-man show, since tanzania's first president julius nyerere apologised us getting economics horribly wrong retired 1985, grappled vision nation united. "peaceful" country default much design, though matter many times write loud, fellow africans want hear it. apparently, complexity boring. much magufuli best can, also worst can. never short life government beloved country conservative, intolerant, paranoid economically illiterate impervious good advice, saddled gun-happy thugs. want say new. three retired presidents live city, buried one: insight comes sort thing. yeah, new. unexpected. john pombe magufuli interesting two years office. first two years always tough everyone: incumbent finding feet getting drenched murky waters head statehood. republic always divided president, matter was. us love them, us don't, done kiswahili outsider get look-in. country really republic president magufuli going make obligatory ten-year term, two years far early certain anything. break five, afraid soon tell. meantime, going keep steady, plough fields keep elephants un-extinct that. check another two years general elections hotting up, might something say then. meantime: idhaa ya kiswahili, people. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. listening post kenya elections: media manipulations misdemeanours function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5532876755001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author elsie eyakuze elsie eyakuze independent consultant blogger mikocheni report, based dar es salaam, tanzania. @ mikochenireport politics tanzania kenya africa
us president donald trump meet philippines president rodrigo duterte november 13 [ap] much-anticipated meeting two world's controversial leaders set take place november 13. us president donald trump expected hold bilateral talks filipino counterpart, rodrigo duterte , ahead east asia summit philippines . large, many expecting convivial hobnob two populist leaders, promised make respective nations great again. welcomed burgeoning duterte-trump bromance much-needed respite troubled alliance, others critical us president's open embrace strongmen like duterte. troubled alliance early months office, duterte repeatedly insulted us officials, including former president barack obama criticised bloody drug war. duterte's scorched-earth campaign reportedly claimed thousands lives since 2016, drawing condemnation human rights groups, international media western capitals. amid growing disagreements traditional allies like washington, duterte adopted "independent" foreign policy, saw philippines drawing closer china russia . return, us' chief rivals offered state-of-the-art weapons large-scale investment deals. must said trump duterte also share ideological affinity. within months, duterte downgraded security ties america, threatening expel us soldiers stationed philippines cancelling major war games contested south china sea. also restricted us access philippine bases newly implemented enhanced defense cooperation agreement. sudden, us seemed verge losing oldest ally asia, china rapidly filling vacuum. election trump, however, precipitated unmistakable recovery bilateral ties. particular, due trump administration's explicit conscious decision prioritise strategic cooperation asian allies promotion human rights democracy values. filipino president, consistently shunned criticising trump, visibly pleased. birds feather flock together anything, duterte praise trump past year, welcoming closer bilateral cooperation common concerns terrorism. ahead meeting us president, promised country "remain best friends america". return, senior officials trump administration, particularly secretary state rex tillerson, rarely discussed human rights concerns meetings duterte. according leaked documents, white house even supports duterte's anti-drug campaign. us president went far praising filipino leader "unbelievable job drug problem". {articleguid} must said trump duterte also share ideological affinity. besieged populists, present true representative "the people" liberal establishment. deeply unpopular home, trump openly embraced seemingly envies international strongmen, exercise almost total control respective countries. duterte, relishes support attention global leaders like xi jinping vladimir putin. also pragmatic factors play. duterte recognised, albeit reluctantly, significance us alliance moments crisis. ties bind isil -affiliated fighters laid months-long siege marawi, philippines' largest muslim majority city, washington provided desperately needed special forces assistance, high-grade intelligence, weapons philippine military. philippine defence secretary delfin lorenzana, former defence attache washington, thanked us playing "vital" role defeating isil elements marawi. duterte also acknowledged deep unshakable bond pentagon philippine military, played key role shaping taming filipino president's erratic defence policy. {articleguid} meeting trump, duterte expected discuss ways enhance counter-terrorism counter-narcotics cooperation, allies share common concerns. it's doubtful, though, whether substantive discussions trade investment issues well south china sea, duterte exploring joint energy development beijing. two leaders also tackle continued cooperation areas disaster relief humanitarian assistance, given philippines' vulnerability extreme weather events. duterte, however, made clear won't welcome discussion human rights lest tell us leader "lay off". though us administration pressure raise duterte's drug war manila, trump likely focus building rapport personal friendship filipino counterpart. far impossible expect all-smiling picture, showing two leaders making controversial duterte fist bump gesture meeting. duterte determined show even us president behind him, trump eager display personal diplomacy ability win back estranged allies. likely anger liberal critics home, keep one world's longest-standing alliances even keel. many ways, trump duterte perfect match likely keep bromance going coming years. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. 101 east taking back marawi function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5625768239001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author richard javad heydarian richard javad heydarian specialist asian geopolitical/economic affairs. @ richeydarian rodrigo duterte donald trump philippines united states asia
anti-trump protesters hold signs front police officers near south korean national assembly us president donald trump made speech, seoul november 8 [reuters/kim kyung-hoon] us president donald trump marks first anniversary election high-profile, 11-day tour asia, spotlight remains largely fixed washington investigations whether presidential campaign "colluded" russia whether investigations could truncate trump's tenure - much watergate truncated richard nixon's. watergate scandal closing president nixon, let fulminating critics keep extending foreign policy record that, retrospect, even many detractors political opponents acknowledge hallmark presidency. start second term january 1973 resignation august 1974, nixon sustained historic opening china, concluded us withdrawal vietnam, successfully managed riskiest us-soviet nuclear standoff since cuban missile crisis. today, key question is: president trump salvage presidency - or, least, legacy - abandoning stale, "get tough" sophistry currently shaping us foreign policy debates positively seize strategic initiative critical parts world? foreign policy trump promised trump ran president, one ostensibly promising parts platform scathing critique us foreign policy establishment's 25-year record wantonly costly shamefully destructive blunders - including invasion iraq, arming fighters overthrow governments libya syria, gratuitous deterioration us relations russia china . debacles flowed source - bipartisan consensus that, 9/11 attacks, washington prove, whatever amount force necessary, us remained world's sole superpower, enforcing global order supposedly serving us interests. {articleguid} trump challenged consensus, arguing (at best) washington's reckless spending trillions dollars maintain order actually made us weaker, economically strategically. ample reason doubt trump could would translate critique genuinely new productive policies. foreign policy thinking internally conflicted; also taken administration multiple foreign policy advisers who, commitment us "leadership", embody outlook trump criticised (purportedly) rejected campaign. but, year since trump elected, domestic travails tipped scales foreign-policy decision-making ever towards embrace strategically failed but, domestic political terms, "acceptable" approaches. trump's campaign suggestion improving us relations moscow working russia important international challenges - example, fighting islamic state iraq levant (isil, also known isis) ending syrian conflict - could start much-needed course change us foreign policy. "collusion russia" investigation made seriously investing course domestically risky. result, us ties russia arguably worse trump came office. candidate trump pointed out, costs us' imperial course especially high middle east. vital part world, united states - interests interests greater stability - needs recalibrate relations traditional allies engage, positively comprehensively, important regional actors. robust us diplomatic opening iran - going well beyond nuclear deal - essential tasks. foreign policy trump implemented passes trump administration's middle east strategy seems rest aligning ever unconditionally us' problematic yet also traditional regional allies, saudi arabia israel. trump continues (grudgingly) implement nuclear deal, inclined, point, use springboard wider "nixon china" rapprochement tehran. meantime, trump's turn towards saudi arabia israel encouraging leaders indulge dangerous ambitions region, higher confidence washington back even reckless schemes. {articleguid} dynamic well-illustrated saudi-emirati pressure campaign qatar, launched within days trump's first foreign stop president - riyadh - may. also reflected saudi-engineered "resignation" lebanese prime minister saad hariri - move setting stage (at least saudi israeli calculations) us-backed war hezbollah lebanese stronghold. trump administration seems trying trade unequivocal support saudi crown prince muhammad bin salman riyadh's public acceptance israel. really critical deal united states middle east still made iran. even ardent pro-israel/anti-iran hawks washington find hard question imperative deal us needs pick pieces, saudi system us policy relied decades collapses. trump make difference asia asia, trump currently traveling, us interests goal long-term regional stability also call creative, strategically-grounded diplomacy. trump's almost entirely coercive response ongoing nuclear crisis north korea antithesis posture. but, fact, crisis affords trump extraordinary opportunity - treats opening put security world's economically vital region sturdier foundation. seizing opportunity require united states work china, japan, koreas multilateral diplomatic process aimed ultimately establishing reunified korean state would militarily denuclearised strategically neutral. process, relations among asia's major strategic actors would become far stable today. point, trump may ready take approach - is, remain, constructive way forward. unfortunately, trump's opponents appear content hope (and, degree, agitate) impeachment. but, unless democrats take control house representatives - something cannot january 2019 earliest - odds trump impeached low. unless democrats take control senate - also cannot january 2019 - odds trump removed office first term ends even lower. trump letting foreign policy get steered conventional directions, bound continue so. trump seized initiative recast us foreign policy ways put regional security middle east asia secure foundations, could yet make foreign policy positive part legacy - perhaps even surmount domestic troubles. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author hillary mann leverett hillary mann leverett ceo political risk consultancy stratega. us & canada united states donald trump
undocumented women experience sexual harassment abuse, speaking puts risk arrest detention, writes levoy [juan carlos llorca/ap] revelations hollywood producer harvey weinstein sexually harassed assaulted women finally put sexual misconduct abuse power media spotlight. known long time violence women endemic much inequality discrimination. women social strata face risk victimised, particularly vulnerable. case undocumented women. laws policies governing irregular migrants reduce control lives, deny public assistance, isolate society. consequences policies women detrimental. take case maria, domestic worker philippines . arrived germany work home diplomat united arab emirates . says emirati man repeatedly raped eventually returned country, leaving behind, pregnant undocumented. gave birth daughter diplomat never recognised child, never held accountable rape maria report fear deported. daughter hanna three years old, maria found one member organisations, agisra, assisted filing complaint police germany. maria received legal help able deportation suspended. 2010 survey conducted france, example, found one three police stations would arrest migrant woman initiate deportation proceedings tried file complaint. like maria, millions undocumented women experience sexual harassment abuse risk getting arrested, deported and/or losing livelihood speak it. abusers well aware fact exploit fully, often intentionally misinforming may happen leave report abusive situation. undocumented women like maria able escape vicious circle seek help authorities. {articleguid} research carried university illinois four major urban centres united states 2013 showed 70 percent undocumented migrants less likely contact law enforcement authorities victims crime, due status. 2010 survey conducted france, example, found one three police stations would arrest migrant woman initiate deportation proceedings tried file complaint. failure treat undocumented women victims plays hands abusers. efforts curb immigration tougher policing deportations, authorities simply enable criminals abuse undocumented women impunity. research uk-based black feminist organisation imkaan found 92 percent surveyed women children experiencing gender-based violence, immigration issues, reported threatened deportation abuser. sumanta roy, one authors report, told platform international cooperation undocumented migrants (picum) migration status "has profound impact women ability leave violent relationship". indeed, nothing change women international human rights frameworks reflected local practice. past years, limited progress direction. spain , legislation enacted 2009 gender-based violence exempts undocumented women victims violence deportation, least period criminal proceedings, provides immediate right access domestic violence shelters. law, undocumented women victims gender-based violence also apply residence status work permit. 2016, netherlands rolled policy called " safe in, safe ", promotes ability victims crime report police, without fear immigration consequences. {articleguid} policy began modest initiative amsterdam 2013, police realised building trust local communities prerequisite safe neighbourhoods effective policing. police organised sessions inform members local communities right report crimes safe environment, led victims crimes reporting them. number cities across us come similar conclusion, refused let federal immigration authorities outsource work local police service providers. means cities, undocumented migrants access healthcare, report crimes get services without risk arrested. undocumented victims crime abuse, including survivors gender-based violence, obtain special status us testify support investigations. yet, according recent reports , trump administration's anti-immigration policies stance led increasing number undocumented women choosing endure violence abuse reporting police. women girls deserve live life free violence. achieving requires us understand society's written unwritten rules practices create vulnerability increase violence directed women. ongoing #metoo debate sexual harassment indispensable, also requires solidarity women , regardless status. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. upfront makes someone 'feminist'? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5621061532001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author michele levoy michele levoy director platform international cooperation undocumented migrants (picum). europe women's rights immigration abuse human rights
two muslim converts convicted murdering british soldier broad daylight london street, hacking death gruesome killing horrified nation. jury london's old bailey criminal court decided michael adebolajo, 29, michael adebowale, 22, guilty murdering soldier lee rigby may 22 woolwich, southeast london. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo("2951627558001", 1659202291001, 'aq~~,aaaamtvjifk~,tvgoq5ztwjaonnpgafua3rpnyd849qp8', 330, 186, "bcvid_2951627558001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > woolwich murderers convicted british court pageloadedsuccessfully pageloadedsuccessfully two british citizens denied murder, adebolajo saying killing part war allah response western wars nations iraq afghanistan. brother adebolajo told al jazeera investigations unit woolwich attack "inevitable" justification "obvious". jeremiah adebolajo, 26, said initial shock seeing brother television may, recognised motivation behind attack. said: "is justified muslim attack member army occupying muslim lands? something scholars think it’s obvious people. "the events inevitable. eventually going another attack mentioned foreign policy justification." accepting public’s perception michael adebolajo render brother violent man, argued questions asked britain’s armed forces: "i would say, lee rigby violent individual? british soldiers, go afghanistan iraq kill, violent individuals?" according mainstream imams, adebolajo’s actions breached key islamic principle muslims must adhere whilst living britain, covenant security: promise attack people host country. woolwich: war without borders? mi5 ‘harassed’ woolwich killer, says brother q&a;: jeremiah adebolajo featured documentary al jazeera investigative unit pageloadedsuccessfully pageloadedsuccessfully rochdale imam irfan chishti told al jazeera murder lee rigby clearly breaks rule. "there isn’t justification him, personally, take arms. might say that, ‘well, specific solider who’s killed specific muslim i’m taking vengeance’, adding, "he british citizen oath live peaceably land live accordance rules law land." war without borders jeremiah adebolajo explained brother’s actions direct blowback west’s "war terror" mantra. explained might term new ‘war without borders’, likening adebolajo’s actions american drone strikes muslim countries; act war. "the point he’s trying make fact geographical location battlefield, since war terror, basically disappeared", said jeremiah, adding, "when people driving roads afghanistan targeted drones, ask question, people soldiers? battlefield?" former commander british forces afghanistan, colonel richard kemp robustly defended west’s war terror, claiming necessity order prevent similar attacks woolwich. said: "we go find wherever attack carry attacks us." adebolajo radicalised video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo("2951110656001", 1659202291001, 'aq~~,aaaamtvjifk~,tvgoq5ztwjaonnpgafua3rpnyd849qp8', 330, 186, "bcvid_2951110656001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > jeremiah adebolajo speaks al jazeera woolwich attack pageloadedsuccessfully pageloadedsuccessfully following conversion islam late teens, michael adebolajo met radical preachers omar bakri muhammad anjem choudary joined marches organised offshoots disbanded radical group, al muhajiroun. often attending group’s rallies even serving 51 day prison sentence 2006 assaulting police officer demo, brother denies michael adebolajo radicalised. told al jazeera: "it’s tidy narrative assume young christian boy radicalised bogeymen like figures, anjem choudary, omar bakri muhammad, went conveyor belt, were, radicalisation events woolwich happened. it’s true." complicity torture jeremiah adebolajo claims brother’s arrest kenya 2010 attempting cross border somalia join armed islamist group al shabaab triggered on-going campaign harassment britain’s security services recruit informant. alleges brother mistreated whilst kenyan police custody british security services aware it. said: "they complicit allowing interrogated means interrogation kenyans chose. questions asked allowed kenyans torture british citizen." kenyan police denied torturing adebolajo home foreign offices refused comment. jeremiah alleges security services "putting lot pressure" "really disrupting life" right "a months before" woolwich attack. predicted similar attack happen again, stating: "i suggest won’t last, simply tactics british secret service foreign policy... every violent action, violent reaction." follow kris twitter: @krisjepson source: al jazeera investigative europe murder crime
united states' 2016 presidential election, writer carvell wallace decided needed get passports children. worried family would unsafe donald trump's america. needed flee country? one year later, they're still here. period, he's watched marriages dissolve family members stop speaking other. one question nagging him: americans move forward together? wallace isn't sure. "we're nation 320 million people," says. "and know don't like much. beyond that, don't know do." closer appear, wallace decides best way move forward turn face dark moments america's history - own. along way, brings guests thoughtful conversations means american, americans fighting for, what's next us. debut episode features oscar-winning actor mahershala ali, joins wallace discuss means black man us, fatherhood time trump, maintaining grace face adversity. ali notes: "it sounds corny, sounds trite, think much better job listening other." closer appear first podcast jetty , new podcast studio al jazeera. listen first episode player subscribe apple podcasts favourite podcast player. follow show twitter @closershow . also get full episodes facebook watch . source: al jazeera news podcast closer appear jetty audio united states
podcast sees world points impact. every week team debrief bring conversations reporters, analysts, filmmakers photojournalists around world, places report from. news stories tend mile wide inch deep. plan opposite take beyond headlines wire copy. subscribe debrief iphone ipad: reading phone tablet, tap . podcasts app, subscribe debrief get new episodes absolutely free. prefer different app, here’s rss feed . android: subscribe listen debrief spotify , google play , stitcher tunein . different app, here’s rss feed . source: al jazeera news
karimul haque's mother died couldn't get hospital, swore one else village dhalabari, india's west bengal state, would suffer fate. last 20 years, he's used motorcycle ambulance saved 4,000 lives. people call 'ambulance dada'. show: al jazeera journalist priyanka gupta, visited dhalabari. host mohsin ali. follow twitter: @priyankagind @mohsin ambulance dada part aj shorts - short documentary series ordinary people extraordinary circumstances. check out: aljazeera.com/shorts . read more: india's ambulance dada inside indian hospital children dying subscribe debrief iphone ipad: reading phone tablet, tap . podcasts app, subscribe debrief get new episodes absolutely free. prefer different app, here’s rss feed . android: subscribe listen debrief spotify , google play , stitcher tunein . different app, here’s rss feed . desktop laptop: find episodes . source: al jazeera podcast health india poverty & development asia
manal tamimi wears many hats: mother, activist palestinian resisting occupation, alongside children. {articleguid} her, roles inseparable part family become known protests village nabi saleh. find normalcy children amidst chaos? show: al jazeera journalist hyojin park, visited manal nabi saleh. host jasmin bauomy. {articleguid} follow twitter: @hyojinparkh @jasminbauomy film palestinian supermom part aj shorts - short documentary series ordinary people extraordinary circumstances. check out: aljazeera.com/shorts . subscribe debrief iphone ipad: reading phone tablet, tap . podcasts app, subscribe debrief get new episodes absolutely free. prefer different app, here's rss feed . android: subscribe listen debrief spotify , google play , stitcher tunein . different app, here's rss feed . desktop laptop: find episodes . source: al jazeera news podcast palestine audio human rights war & conflict
mohammed bin salman accused thinking 'likely consequences behaviour' [olivier douliery/epa] us officials expressed "growing alarm" moves made recently saudi arabia's crown prince saying could "damage us interests", new york times reported . us diplomats along officials pentagon cia say crown prince mohammed bin salman "is behaving recklessly without sufficient consideration likely consequences behaviour", times quoted unidentified state department official saying tuesday. crown prince salman, 32, also known initials mbs, quickly consolidated power named next line thrown father, king salman, last june. dozens senior saudi officials rounded detained - allegedly corruption crackdown - november 4, including 11 cabinet ministers kingdom's powerful businessmen. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5643890287001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5643890287001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > hariri breaks silence: ‘i free saudi arabia’ day, lebanon's prime minister saad hariri abruptly announced resignation television saudi capital, riyadh, saying iran hezbollah movement interfering country's affairs. hariri yet return saudi critics within lebanon's government accused riyadh detaining will. leader hezbollah, hassan nasrallah, said hariri's resignation "forced" saudi arabia. comments state department official new york times reflect disunity within us administration president donald trump. mass arrests saudi arabia trump tweeted : "i great confidence king salman crown prince saudi arabia, know exactly doing. harshly treating 'milking' country years." saudi-led group countries also imposed blockade neighbouring qatar june 5, accusing doha supporting "extremism" region. qatar vehemently denied accusations. {articleguid} last month, us secretary state rex tillerson urged crown prince engage qatar dialogue end gulf crisis, said "not strong indication" mbs ready talk. mbs appointed defence minister january 2015 notable move launch operation decisive storm, saudi-led coalition yemen houthi rebels control much country. war gone coalition's way houthis still controlling capital, sanaa, areas north. yemeni civilians borne brunt 10,000 dead, tens thousands wounded, impoverished country brink famine , deadly outbreak cholera. saudi arabia accused iran "direct military aggression" houthi rebels yemen. crown prince pledged overhaul economy saudi arabia weaning heavy reliance oil, rid kingdom systemic corruption, " moderate " society long influenced religious hardliners. {articleguid} also driven far aggressive foreign policy counter influence regional rival iran . taking june, mbs vowed take "the battle" iran, accused seeking "to control islamic world". upfront saudi arabia miscalculate qatar feud? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5495521682001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news mohammed bin salman saudi arabia iran lebanon qatar
nenney shushaidah binti shamsuddin, 42, one first two female judges appointed syariah high court malaysia last year [liz gooch/al jazeera] kuala lumpur - sitting court library surrounded islamic law books, nenney shushaidah binti shamsuddin polite softly spoken describes rigours job. i'm bench, i'm woman, i'm man. i'm judge. nenney shushaidah binti shamsuddin, syariah high court judge one day could sentencing offender caned breaking islamic law, next could see giving man permission take second wife. islamic law enforcers often credited feminist pioneers, judge nenney fits descriptions. made history malaysia last year appointed one first two female syariah high court judges muslim-majority nation. "syariah" malay spelling arabic word "sharia", meaning islamic law. 42-year-old mother three doesn't shy away imposing harshest punishments prescribed islamic law. "when i'm bench, i'm woman, i'm man. i'm judge," says. "i need deal case fair firm, follow law, bias." malaysia, women pursuing careers islamic justice system, judges lawyers court mediators. malaysia's two-tier court system, islamic law courts deal family morality cases involving muslims, consuming alcohol, gambling polygamy, secular courts hear criminal many civil cases. malaysia appointed first two female syariah judges 2010. now, 27 country's 160 islamic court judges women. rising female judges "personally, think it's question gender," says mohd na'im mokhtar, former chief judge state selangor oversaw appointment judge nenney colleague. "we looking best people administer justice." feel it's extremely important courts balance terms gender lot issues involve women. shareena sheriff, sisters islam group countries indonesia , pakistan sudan also female islamic law judges, however, religious scholars argue islamic law allow women hold position. malaysia's national religious authorities issued fatwa (religious edict) declaring women could syariah judges 2006. country's top islamic court judge director-general national syariah judiciary department, ibrahim lembut, said last year state religious councils continue block appointment . shareena sheriff, sisters islam, muslim women's advocacy group kuala lumpur, says states impose restrictions types cases female judges hear. "i don't see differentiation men women," says. welcomed rise female syariah judges, especially two high court appointments, shareena says early tell whether court's treatment women changed. "even though numbers risen, numbers relative men still low," says, pointing malaysia's secular court system also remains dominated men. "we feel it's extremely important courts balance terms gender lot issues involve women. need level balance way deliver justice also gender sensitisation justice system." women put emotions aside restrictions cases judge nenney hears state selangor. weekly caseload range child custody prostitution polygamy. even syariah court officer quite difficult women preferred men ... needed study two years more. nenney shushaidah binti shamsuddin, syariah high court judge malaysia, muslim men allowed marry four wives, must first obtain permission islamic law court. hearing case, judge nenney says verifies husband's income see afford take another wife finds whether existing wife agrees. "if wife agrees husband afford it, give permission," tells al jazeera. judge nenney also hears "khalwat" cases, islamic offence unmarried men women found together "close proximity". says serious cases, sentences offenders six strokes cane, 5,000 ringgit fine ($1,166) one-month jail term. critics suggested female judges may favour women, judge nenney denies sympathetic towards women. "we put emotions aside," says. "i empathy them, put shoes, sympathy. need play role judge, make decision present case." changing perceptions gender roles judge nenney hopeful rising number female judges help change perception syariah courts treat women fairly. "the public perception said male judges must biased women. hope this, women come me, must know there's difference male judge female judge. judge job." side bench, women also working syariah lawyers. number women registered syariah lawyers association, voluntary membership group, increased 200 last five years, make 40 percent group's members. sa'adiah binti din working lawyer secular courts first volunteered syariah legal aid work 18 years ago. says realised many muslim women appearing syariah courts unrepresented, began taking divorce cases. "that turning point," says sa'adiah. "now, i'm syariah court almost every day." says female clients often find less difficult appear female judge court officials. "i believe find easier talk woman," says. malaysian universities, islamic law courses increasingly dominated young women. nur farhana, 22, one growing number young malaysian women studying islamic law university [liz gooch/al jazeera] judge mohd na'im, sits syariah court appeal, says women top performing students classes teaches local institutions. nur farhana, 22, one four students completing internship selangor syariah court june. one women. studying islamic civil law international islamic university malaysia, already decided pursue career islamic law says civil law "man-made law". "most (islamic) laws said quran sunnah, … prefer that," says. farhana may female role models, judge nenney graduated 1998, prospect judge seemed far-fetched. woman ever appointed syariah bench malaysia, simply finding job field tough. "even syariah court officer quite difficult women preferred men," says. "i needed study two years more." returning university complete masters degree, started working lawyer legal aid office moving attorney-general's department. now, says, syariah justice system offers young women good career path. "to me, quite difficult reach position. needed compete male officers," says. "but it's gender now, it's qualification." source: al jazeera author liz gooch liz gooch journalist covering southeast asia. @ liz_gooch law malaysia religion asia
"when see mother drenched blood stomach opened, intestines coming up, would feel?" salahuddin khalid young boy living new delhi life knew erupted cataclysm violence bloodshed. 1947, border new nations india pakistan created. salahuddin family found indian side border. muslims land dominated hindus sikhs. "i heard shriek. turned saw sikh sword hand sister running," recalls. "first, entered room mother, killed her, ran towards us." salahuddin fled fear. returned, mother lay mutilated. "it like … slaughterhouse," says. 70 years since partition - moment subcontinent divided britain, creating india pakistan. number survivors remember moment, violence left million people dead, fast dwindling, leaving many worried part history may soon forgotten [steve chao/al jazeera] back then, salahuddin knew little political events foreshadowed deaths mother least million people across indian subcontinent. people like endured deadly aftermath britain's historic decision relinquish indian empire carve two new nations along religious lines. now, 70 years later, memories horrors unfolded muslims, hindus sikhs turned other, remain raw minds survived. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5541431532001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5541431532001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > memories partition: dangerous escape india pageloadedsuccessfully "when remember things, feel much pain heart shrinks," says salahuddin. creation india pakistan prompted biggest mass migration human history, muslims scattered across india hindus sikhs pakistan desperately tried make side border. people fled homes, wave violence unleashed neighbours turning other. "people year would've attended other's wedding parties … murdering other, raping other's daughters, roasting other's babies spits," says historian william dalrymple. describes train stations cities like lahore, new nation pakistan, morphed scenes mass death. "the platforms literally awash blood load hindus waiting platform travel india massacred, another platform covered blood train arrived india full dead muslims. total chaos," says dalyrymple. read more: one man remembers 'poison' took partition amid chaos, women singled especially horrific treatment. many lived fear raped. amolak swani 17-year-old hindu girl living parents peshawar, pakistan, heard muslim mob approaching home. father told mother attackers setting homes fire taking women away. "he frightened quickly gave mother bottle petrol matches told … 'if don't survive downstairs, don't give honour. pour petrol daughter don't let taken hands people'," says. attackers eventually passed house, amolak family fled indian city amritsar. follow al jazeera's coverage 70 years india-pakistan partition women didn't escape. sardar joginder singh kholi, sikh teenager time partition, recalls woman named veerawaali lived village pakistan's punjab province. "she beautiful woman. unrest … muslims chasing her," says. "there sikh temple village, ran inside temple take refuge. paid respects holy book … doused body kerosene set fire." wasn't one sardar's neighbours died. recalls happened men village attackers arrived. "out 25 men there, murdered 18," says sardar, 86. "i cried lot. think it, feel something happened us. it's humanity died. everybody became devil." read more: partition riots 'a grave attack humanity' woman worships monkey temple new delhi, india. 1947, independent india pakistan created, hindu, sikh muslim mobs attacked streets capital places throughout indian subcontinent [steve chao/al jazeera] atrocities spawned decades hostility pakistan india, sides border, efforts chip away hatred remains. indian city amritsar, new museum helping keep alive memories era. survivors ageing, curator mallika ahluwalia says crucial partition museum established still living connection personal stories era. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5540532401001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5540532401001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > life wake pakistan's independence pageloadedsuccessfully "it's impact person went it. would felt like leave behind homes, leave behind friends, leave behind lives they've known move new land," ahluwalia says. "it less migration people partition assets - collective migration sorrow." mallika wants museum place sad reflection. wants commemorate acts kindness crossed religious divides saw muslims, sikhs hindus protect violence. "i think it's really important highlight stories humanity, highlight stories friend helping friend, neighbour helping neighbour … stranger helping stranger," says. "those narratives shouldn't get lost." side border, citizens archive pakistan recorded stories 2,200 survivors last decade. aaliyah tayyebi, senior project manager non-profit organisation's oral history project, says hearing perspectives ordinary citizens lived partition vital. "i feel narratives people suffered sides, whether hindu, muslim sikh, come forefront people get hear it, make realise horrors war," says. "it would make understand killing one another solve anything." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5541137481001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5541137481001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > hidden legacy india's partition, 70 years pageloadedsuccessfully aaliyah believes today's generation needs learn pakistan's history. "we use tool make us better people run never look back pretend never happened, foolish," says. creating better understanding went country created would help foster better relations india, aaliyah believes. "we neighbours. need understand greater good countries, would benefit us respect one another, tolerate one another, understand past come better future." survivors, like salahuddin khalid, say there's way forgive brutality endured. "how i?" asks. "you give tonnes gold, tonnes money, give mother?" mallika ahluwalia co-founder first museum commemorate partition india pakistan 1947. museum, amritsar, india, recounts tragedy partition, million people died, also positive stories sikhs, hindus muslims helped [steve chao/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news author steve chao india-pakistan partition india pakistan
chiang mai, thailand - every year northern thailand , groups men gather take part unique activity: beetle fighting. men come fight beetles gamble, others come simply meet socialise friends. fights organised year offer break daily routine small, agrarian villages. participants typically low-income farmers, also wealthy competitors. locals capture rhinoceros beetles jungle beetle mating season september. average beetle sold 50 baht ($1.40), champion-caliber insect go much 3,000 baht ($84). owners bring beetles small arenas fighting takes place. match beetles size character two similar beetles found, bets placed competitors head onto fighting stage - log wood, crafted holes wherein female, pheromone-secreting beetle trapped. two male beetles thus motivated fight female beetle. lift push opponents huge horns; victorious beetle break opponent’s horn cause flee. matches broken rounds time beetles lock horns. match continues 12 rounds, contest declared draw. bets, range 100 baht ($3) much 50,000 baht ($1,400), add drama occasion. losing beetle typically returned jungle, winners kept pieces sugar cane fight again. read more: animal smugglers
pandas zoos around world ever before. thanks developments artificial insemination, captive panda populations grown 450. despite this, wildlife experts warn species grave danger. human encroachment housing developments mining present major threat wild panda populations. 101 east reporter steve chao travelled one largest panda breeding centres china find captive pandas ever return wild.
iman aldebe, 30, muslim designer born sweden jordanian parents. [john honk] stockholm, sweden - last weeks swedish fashion brand hennes & mauritz, known globally h&m;, made headlines featuring muslim woman hijab 2015 fall collection campaign video. swedish retailers done so. ahlens department store also featured muslim women hijab 2015 fall campaign. drew praise. also criticism, accusing retailers "normalising hijab supporting oppression women". kind sentiment familiar iman aldebe, muslim designer born sweden jordanian parents. many designs feature haute couture turbans sold exclusive department stores sweden, paris, new york dubai. imam's daughter getting hasn't easy. daughter recently retired imam, aldebe grew religious muslim family stockholm, where, early 1990s, place worship mosque basement doubled community centre. muslims country would come capital worship there, buy religious books halal food learn quran. hours weekends holidays, people gathered felt acceptance came around shared beliefs. and, circles, clear expectations imam’s daughter ought look behave. "i started wearing hijab six," explains 30-year-old designer. "growing up, always monitored. wearing makeup anything differed [what] [rest muslim] community [wore] acceptable." "i felt much responsibility certain role live to," reflects. interest fashion always bubbled beneath surface. "i remember growing used dislike way mum friends uniform, colourless headscarves. also used wear style a-line coat – thing available [in shops] time deemed modest," aldebe explains. many aldebe designs feature haute couture turbans sold exclusive department stores sweden, paris, new york dubai [jimmy hakansson] began studying fashion design high school 16-years-old quickly realised entrepreneurial side passion crafting clothes. started creating graduation wedding outfits fashion-forward still modest. "i started small orders immediate circle friends family," says. aldebe went university study journalism law, year studies decided take gap year. re-imagining hijab year proved valuable; teaching much real world retail worked. also gave aldebe first taste anti-hijab discrimination. remembers seeing ad outside boutique looking recruit sales person. according 2014-2015 report thomson reuters, muslims globally spent $266bn clothing footwear 2013 number expected rise $484bn 2019. "when went inside query position told already taken," says. "i feeling genuine sent friend, wearing hijab. asked position, asked soon could start," sighs. also time tried find retail work via job centre , told person handling case religion doesn’t belong workplace. "that person also told probably better take hijab," remembers. feeling disappointed determined, aldebe returned university. graduated degree broadcast journalism law 2012. eventually got part-time job boutique – first made adjustments way wore headscarf. "i decided change [the way wore it], wrapping around face tying back like traditional african head wrap. went interview accepted." recalls customers would complement "cool" looked. aldebe haute couture turbans sold large retail stores global shopping hubs, hoping break uk market. [annelie ellie akerman] "i felt could make changes wouldn’t compromise beliefs would acceptable within religion within swedish society," says. 2006, aldebe appeared, along muslim designers, sweden’s tv4 morning magazine show discuss styles hijab. "following segment, aftonbladet, leading swedish newspaper, reached swedish department stores asked would consider selling headscarves catering muslim fashion," aldebe explains. answer, told her, no. aldebe began think seriously concept modernising muslim fashion. felt certain stores would change opinion realised much untapped market muslim women wear was. started set "modest" fashion business. filling gap "it's interesting see stores refused sell hijab years ago embracing capitalising muslim fashion," says. fast-growing market. according 2014-2015 report thomson reuters, muslims globally spent $266bn clothing footwear 2013 number expected rise $484bn 2019. millions potential muslim consumers worldwide, brands like mango dkny released lines specifically catering month ramadan, muslims fast sunrise sunset family social gatherings common. aldebe recognised huge gap market. observing customers, noticed many wanted able buy ready-styled headscarves. idea turban came from. "happy turban" line, every headpiece unique. proven popular among muslims non-muslims alike. aldebe's "happy turban" line, every headpiece unique proven popular among muslims non-muslims alike. [annelie ellie akerman] doesn't style turbans headscarves, explains. "i also design clothes suitable muslim fashionistas," says. that, however, hasn’t always well received. "it took years people would start accept doing." recalls criticism faced first started modernising muslim fashion 2001. critics came two usually opposed groups – muslims swedish nationalists. muslims unhappy work, says: "i think muslims come europe feel ostracised want cling much possible every aspect culture religion, otherwise feel lost." able win many sceptics. "some people critical clients," explains. use fashion tool eliminate prejudices muslims," says. "i want challenge image oppressed muslim woman west voluntarily isolates society. iman aldebe, fashion designer. turning point many, aldebe suggests, came wake 9/11 attacks us. hostility towards muslims grew, women hijab felt particularly visible vulnerable. chose take off; others looked people like aldebe help modernise it. and, aldebe, much fashion. explains how, past, many muslim women sweden felt could apply jobs imposed regulations regarding dress. result career options could limited. but, 2007, aldebe commissioned create hijab hat forms part official swedish police uniform female muslim officers choose wear it. also designing official military hijab swedish army, well fire department, pharmacies hospitals. "i use fashion tool eliminate prejudices muslims," says. "i want challenge image oppressed muslim woman west voluntarily isolates society." "i tried make difference society coming solutions instead letting society dictate can't do." change fashion hasn't everybody – quest modernise muslim fashion provoked conservative muslims right-wing swedes alike. "since 2011, threatened swedish nationalists started hate campaign me." would receive threats via phone calls, text messages, facebook, emails messages posted blog. among things like, "be careful, might slip die balcony". internet chat forums would feature conversations didn’t deserve live. says threats increased asked design police hijab hat. remains resolute. aldebe commissioned create hijab hat forms part official swedish police uniform [iman aldebe] "i feel proud inspired see muslim hijabi women swedish police," says. "it's easy pioneer anything, it's huge responsibility must it." today, aldebe haute couture turbans sold large retail stores global shopping hubs, hoping break uk market. "now women backgrounds religions wear clothes turbans. collect turbans," says, adding: "it's interesting see … went seen object oppression desired fashion item." aldebe acknowledges many muslim women wear hijab made fashion industry occupations without alter wear it. but, says, "everyone go battle things way". "i could wait another 100 years things changed sweden. make changes come solutions work me," adds. "i wanted wear clothes felt feminine, colourful eco-friendly, created them," says, speaking desire styles represented young european muslim. "i realised early would take long time solve problems come solutions via political means [in order] allow muslim women workforce," reflects. "i felt via fashion solve many issues become accepted society." "fashion art art positive dispel prejudiced [notion muslim] women oppressed. want continue create clothes create opportunities change people." follow fatma twitter @fatmanaib source: al jazeera author fatma naib international women's day islam hijab sweden europe
haniya, left, successor sinwar come different backgrounds [said khatib/epa] hamas members gaza strip elected yahya sinwar head gaza political bureau succeed outgoing leader ismail haniya. sinwar take haniya, served two-term limit time april. sinwar jailed israel 1988 spent next 23 years prison, key leader hamas members israeli prison system. palestinian sources gaza close hamas described sinwar's rise power bridge hamas' political leadership powerful armed wing, izzedine al-qassam. "sinwar's ascension leadership position something dramatic unexpected. election shows hamas democratic institutions pool leaders step leadership positions called upon," said lebanon-based senior hamas leader osama hamdan, runs group's foreign-relations portfolio. palestinian sources, declined identified story, said sinwar could instrumental smoothing gaza's relations egypt could ultimately play important role trying avoid another costly military confrontation israel given "security background". sources added that, contrary previous reports, sinwar co-founder izzedine al-qassam. israeli prison armed group founded 1989. different backgrounds avi issacharoff, israeli journalist, draws distinction sinwar regular hamas politicians predecessor haniya khalil al-haniya, also elected last week sinwar's deputy. issacharoff says sinwar cut different cloth sense come purely political background. rather hunted killed "palestinian collaborators". issacharoff believes sinwar "adventurer", meaning despite background, would reckless enough drag palestinians gaza unwanted military confrontation israel. issacharoff said israeli prison officials told sinwar treated serious head surgery around 2006 saved live. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5325222958001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5325222958001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > explainer: israel-palestine conflict - two-state solution pageloadedsuccessfully although hamas "movement", structurally operates like system "federations" includes gaza, west bank, hamas prisoners israeli jails, hamas members abroad exile. federation elects consultative council local leader. elections set stage elect hamas's overall general congress, general consultative council, turn elect political bureau head, replace current leader khaled mashaal, take place time april. numerous challenges hamas' new crop leaders face numerous thorny challenges determine whether: yet another war gaza; reconciliation palestinian rival fatah; rapprochement egypt, treats hamas-ruled gaza foe impoverished neighbour arab brother. currently, egypt, supports hamas' rival fatah, frosty, antagonistic, relationship hamas control gaza. sinwar's ascension power gaza bring dramatic change hamas' positions issues currently dealing with. especially true regarding reconciliation talks rival fatah regional policies towards israel arab states, according several senior hamas officials spoke al jazeera condition anonymity. officials say hamas operates consensus voting decision-making process, prevent leaders ending behaving without restraint assuming dictatorial powers. new challenge arose meeting washington dc wednesday benjamin netanyahu, israeli prime minister, donald trump, dropped long-held us policy supporting two-state solution. unlike fatah palestinian authority headed president mahmoud abbas, staked existence israeli american acceptance two-state solution, hamas officials see existential threat political standing. "hamas relatively unfazed era new politics heralded trump administration. expectations road ahead anything difficult may even get worse again," beverley milton-edwards, visiting fellow brookings doha centre, told al jazeera. forms resistance hamdan, hamas foreign-policy chief, said group would affected new us policy would persist forms resistance israeli occupation statehood achieved. asked resistance means engaging military confrontations israel, hamdan said: "that's part it, attacked first. "resistance us could peaceful one boycotting israeli consumer products, challenging israel legally defending militarily israel attacks us." whether hamas willing engage peace talks israeli government reach peace deal, officials said: "talking peace israeli, current conditions, futile." say hamas learned experience palestine liberation organisation palestinian authority, little show 24 years negotiations israelis. follow ali younes twitter @ali_reports source: al jazeera author ali younes @ ali_reports war & conflict middle east gaza
eritrea received much attention midst refugee crisis, traumatised citizens undertaking dangerous journeys escape described torturous life hands cruel regime . human rights organisations documented human rights abuses, arbitrary arrests torture, result nearly 5 percent population fled 4,000 eritreans continue flee country month. everyone willing able seek alternative homeland, remain focused positives. eritrea curious mix - capital asmara, smell real macchiato pervades harnet avenue, incredible port city massawa red sea, one oldest africa. italian colonial influences visible throughout asmara, architecture local culture, cafeterias pizzerias. landscape ranges lush, cool highlands hot humid lowlands along red sea coast. but, eritrean people make lasting impression. despite colonial past harsh political climate, eritreans remain hospitable resilient people. 30-year armed struggle, eritrea gained independence ethiopian rule 1991, may 1993, eritreans overwhelmingly voted statehood referendum supervised united nations, independence recognised internationally. isaias afewerki country's president since independence. government postponed future elections, indefinitely. much information slips eritrea, government often jails independent journalists, expelled last international correspondent 2007. images 2013 show rare glimpse everyday lives eritreans.
baidoa, somalia - four-year-old safia adan lies baidoa regional hospital southern somalia tube nose. suffering severe malnutrition dehydration. side worried grandmother looks explain safia first became sick drinking water local well. "the water changed colour still drank it," says grandmother. "we stopped safia became sick. brought city knew get could get good treatment here." lucky – seven people village confirmed dead hospital seen surge children suffering water-borne diseases cholera diarrhoea. latest victims on-going drought ravaging somalia left six million people, half country’s population, facing food shortages seen water supplies become infected bacteria rendering undrinkable. read more: tackle repetitive droughts horn africa last week united nations warned severe famine somalia distinct possibility noted rains failed urgent international action taken country could see repeat famine 2011, killed quarter million people. "in worst affected areas inadequate rainfall lack water wiped crops killed livestock," un said statement released last week. "communities forced sell assets borrow food money survive." aid agencies particularly concerned drought exacerbating country's on-going humanitarian crisis - 365,000 children age five acutely malnourished 71,000 children need urgent life-saving assistance. "this time last year far fewer cases due drought people use kind water," says dr abdullah yusuf, medical coordinator baidoa regional hospital.
thirty-four miners killed 78 wounded police opened fire marikana, near rustenburg [afp] johannesburg, south africa - event recent years shocked "the new south africa" event eerily reminiscent past: massacre striking mine workers last week police fired fear armed workers marched them. event shaken african national congress government seeming replay use bloody force country trade union federation alliance government, workers considered "comrades" people power. distraught wives family members slain miners still seeking information incident lonmin platninum mine marikana, near rustenburg. forty-four died 78 wounded police opened fire. women singing old, haunting xhosa protest hymn often heard fight apartheid called "senzenina": "what done - deserve this?" police open fire south african miners president jacob zuma, former guerilla leader african national congress' armed struggle, announced investigation, saying "cornerstone hard-won democracy allow protests" deeming event "shocking" unacceptable". focus police clear over-reaction misses deeper questions raised failure government intervene conflict earlier mediation workers estranged unions - revolting leaders, got angrier angrier confrontation led violence. "the problem here," former prominent leader cosatu, south african trade union federation, told me, "is government using poorly trained police handle political issues police unequipped resolve". critics louder, including south africa's nobel laureate literature, nadine gordimer, said "devastated. can't believe terrible massacre people, black people," said interview. "ghastly, completely unacceptable."? world reaction equally intense. south african newspapers quoting global peace justice organisation new zealand saying president jacob zuma anc-led government "blood hands". richard trumka, head afl-cio, american labour federation, said "appalled" "once again, mineworkers produce much wealth often dangerous daily working conditions paid highest price - lives completely avoidable industrial conflict". "industrial conflict" become political one. julius malema, controversial former anc youth league leader zuma critic, expelled extreme irresponsible statements, encouraged confrontation fiery speeches workers. many see tragedy avoidable, may simplistic. gap poor south africa leaders grows, anc seems increasingly distant elitist, corrupt, majority struggling bottom social ladder. years ago, administration former president thabo mbeki, anc's organising department shut down, ensuring less participation always dynamic mass movement intensifying estrangement lack discipline ranks. trust leaders organisational structures dipped workers poor find harder make money need survive. workers centre dispute called rock drillers, work rockface deep earth dirty dangerous jobs. journalist greg marinovich wrote daily maverick workers terribly underpaid. "imagine earning 4,000 rand month ($480) deep underground metal powers rich people's cars bejeweled fingers never laboured." massacres like ones sharpeville 1960s bhisho boipatong 1990s became turning points political struggle south africa. massacre marikana may became new symbol fight economic apartheid many condemn today south africa. news dissector danny schechter blogs newsdissector.net . latest books occupy: dissecting occupy wall street blogothon (cosimo books). also hosts programme progressive radio network . source: al jazeera author danny schechter news dissector danny schechter edits mediachannel.org. author crime time. @ @dannyschechter politics new zealand south africa
elections over, thank god, america needs urgently anything else, different president, better congress, honest media, even beautiful terrific wall. urgently needs anger management. least therapy sort. there's much anger america, understand many women angry, understand minorities angry. understand left angry. lost. everything hold dear threatened: minority rights, gay rights, women's rights, protection environment, social security, healthcare, obamacare, financial regulations. they're losing world based reason rationality. republicans still angry? swept field. yet still sound furious. snarling media journalists, sneering protesters. yapping mexicans. barking muslims. they're yowling make america whiter, that's going make america great again. get picture? america mad hell, can't take more, hilarious honest you, america. don't mean insensitive dismissive, remain richest, prosperous, advanced country world, you're still democratic liberal, last time checked. really, snarl, sneer scream more, it's gone hell, spend week, tent syrian refugee camp. funny, indeed truly frightening, growling, howling anger, trump's associates appointees. sounds like white house filled pack angry, nipping, snapping white men control trillions dollars, keys international stability, nuclear weapons, dangerous americans others. time send therapists america's anger, angers rest world. marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. follow facebook . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author marwan bishara marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. @ marwanbishara politics us elections 2016 us & canada united states donald trump
donald trump new campaign. it's make appear sane. he's saying he's sober person good demeanour best temperament. he's saying sedate mild-mannered way, he's sitting still trying look humble. sort of. since he's spent last year running nastiest campaign living memory using racist appeals, making promises can't keep, lying faces claiming didn't say things heard say 10 minutes ago, good idea. him. us. remember he's got track record conning people, defrauding people, bullying people, groping women, going bankrupt sticking people bill, without ever showing shame, regret, remorse. new campaign appear sane good idea him. us. especially since opponent actually got votes he's going presidency disapproval rating 61 percent. meaning people voted know he's bad person. media largely, bizarrely, co-operating venture. see as, quoting, "subdued," "enormity gravity" sinking in. tell us he's changing campaign mode governing mode "dealing realities", "the office transforming man", "we root succeed." "if succeeds, country succeeds." they're normalising him. he's becoming normal? no. it's he's power media completely entwined elite, whatever power says well, must normal. let's keep eyes, ears minds clear, guy wants deport two three million people. right away. wants big, huge, tax cuts order "the greatest jobs president god ever created". george w bush exactly mere 15 years ago got "jobless" recovery, biggest crash since 1929 great recession. american military bases plans certainty rising temperatures making seas rise. that's pentagon, environmental protection agency. greenpeace. trump insists that's hoax, it's chinese disinformation intended undermine american economy, intends withdraw, immediately, paris agreement climate change. he's going new, mild-mannered demeanour? maybe get tweet watcher, hold thumbs three o'clock morning. it's tweets need fear. it's policies mostly dangerous, bad, frankly, mad. succeeds, ultranationalists, racists, fascists succeed and, course, always, super-rich, world over... marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. follow facebook . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author marwan bishara marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. @ marwanbishara us elections 2016 donald trump
roger stone, dark knight american politics "master right-wing political hit jobs" past past five decades, writes bishara [brendan mcdermid/reuters] i've finished watching get roger stone, new netflix documentary man who's arguably produced donald trump's presidential victory, least culture behind dirty, populist campaign. roger stone dark knight american politics "master right-wing political hit jobs" past past five decades. richard nixon's "dirty tactics" george bush's "fear tactics", reagan bush i, course trump, stone active every phase american politics - producing lies, fake news, character assassinations. informative, entertaining times infuriating, documentary exposes cynical new drivers behind victories american right. disturbing chronicle cunning deceit times pause several times order catch breath. film evolves multiple conversations stone revolves around so-called roger rules. rules "if can't famous infamous", "hate stronger love", "never apologise", "attack, attack, attack" etc alas, stone's pompous sleazy character suitable role. producing trump video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5436595886001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5436595886001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: donald trump defends sharing information russia (2:35) pageloadedsuccessfully might noticed trump getting cues fox news since elected president. campaign, seems relied mostly stone's lies, smears, innuendos speeches interviews. donald appreciates stone considers friend "quality guy". it's surprise then, stone dubbed racist sexist bigot who's banned many us networks. frame frame see hear stone spouting certain outrageous allegations, accusations claims repeated trump devoured us media. really need watch understand mean. stone took centre stage outrageous smears media began refer "donald's brain", egotistical trump finally distanced stone, officially. trump hired stone's former lobbying partner, paul manafort, lead presidential campaign, putting stone back action. opinion: five thoughts sober morning trump yet, stone's important discovery cynical belief american politics irredeemably corrupt us media two things: "they're either evil they're lazy, they're both. understand that, whatever want." alas, us corporate media's hunger sensation political acrobatics make profit cheap fed trump's circus much fed them, affording incessant coverage propelled helm republican candidacy; indeed presidency. fortunately, that's face us democracy. end day, democratic system allowed trump become president armoured capacity impeach cronies continue abuse position. face american democracy since elections, trump learned rather quickly running campaign nothing like governing democracy. bombastic businessman-cum-politician finally come face face frustrating checks balances american system allow govern like "third world" leader. every move makes unpicked, dissected, judged various branches american government media. congress continues look campaign's shady dealings possible collusion russia justice department appointed special prosecutor look ability assign special jury. likewise, journalists continuing investigate possible interference ongoing fbi investigation controversial firing director james comey. journalism trumps strictly corporate concerns, us media functions like other. trump also come realise many campaign promises, whether build wall border mexico , scrap treaties ban muslims coming america, easier said done. opinion: one hundred days trump one flinches watching roger stone (legally) misusing abusing american system advance alt-right's agenda enriching process, one awe watching democratic system action. federal prosecutors judges freeze president's executive action muslim ban legal grounds us justice system there's little make better legal argument defence. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5425590271001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5425590271001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: islamophobia usa (44:41) pageloadedsuccessfully anything, shows democracy vote rule majority, also rule democratic values protection minorities enshrined democratic constitutions defended independent judiciary. various branches us government establishment make "deep state" ala egypt ; make totality us democratic tradition institutions pluses minuses. america leads power example always trump america leads example power, whether military financial. end day, democratic system allowed trump become president armoured capacity impeach cronies continue abuse position. system made system perhaps break him. marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. follow facebook . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author marwan bishara marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. @ marwanbishara donald trump united states politics us & canada
considering tendency value money principle else, us president clearly 'bribed' saudi hosts visit country, writes bishara [reuters] us president donald trump 's recent statements tweets middle east puzzled us friends foes alike threatening escalation regional conflicts. last year, said would "seek harmony" middle east us commander-in-chief. first visit region, tensions began rise, especially gulf. trump's flip-flopping threatening stability area, holds 50 percent world's energy reserves. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5482231694001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5482231694001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: saudi-led demands 'reasonable actionable'- qatar (1:29) pageloadedsuccessfully one hand, long claiming saudi arabia hated america behind 9/11, sees kingdom bedrock regional security moderation, america's best friend foremost ally " war terror ". hand, less two weeks calling qatar "crucial strategic partner" riyadh speech, boasting selling "beautiful" american weapons, suddenly began jeer qatar, accusing doha supporting terrorism. add confusion, trump offered mediate saudi arabia qatar asked secretary state calm situation urge restraint, rather tactfully carefully worded public statement. less hour later, trump accused qatar historic, high-level support terrorism undermined foreign policy establishment process. begs question: why? dramatic u-turn saudi arabia, confusion qatar? implications region? puzzling foreign policy blamed administration's recent flip-flop persistent foreign policy confusion trump white house. others detected complicity president secretary state, suggesting playing "good cop-bad cop" qatar. part, trump claimed took position qatar meetings region, counterparts told qatar's support terrorism. opinion: gcc crisis - draconian demands juvenile politics could saudis, emiratis, egyptians bahrainis say cia , department state pentagon didn't know couldn't share president upbeat meeting emir qatar, tamim bin hamad al thani? all, qatar $30bn worth investments united states stands host largest american military base middle east, much " war terror " fought syria, iraq afghanistan. also, trumped charges qatar either demonstrably thin, false totally fake. example, band four accuses qatar supporting taliban opened office afghan insurgency, fact behest us administration facilitate peace talks . video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5482305203001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5482305203001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: behind campaign al jazeera? (24:41) pageloadedsuccessfully qatar also accused supporting anti-regime groups syria , number gulf partners also so. moreover, general joseph vogel, chief us military's central command, wrote qatar " key critical " ally could much help facilitating sustainable deal syria. hamas' political presence doha another item complaint. allowing hamas political presence capital, qataris moderating effect palestinian resistance group. it's perhaps worth remembering hamas last legislative elections palestine , bush administration helped facilitate decade ago. without sin... us secretary state rex tillerson rightly claimed qatar "a history supporting groups span spectrum political expression activism violence". doesn't middle east? washington also record, long extensive one. besides, it's vice support seek freedom occupation oppression. unless us european foreign policy establishments restrain trump presidency taking reckless steps, may heading towards regional chaos conflict. goes accusations qatar "punching weight", especially realm soft power, like media , philanthropy sport. don't tiny uae israel, like saudi arabia, punch weights controversial ways? there's favourite accusation qatar "having ways" presumably financing al jazeera providing platforms persons groups hostile us israel , time hosting biggest us military base region. assuming that's real issue, say, "he without sin among you, let first cast stone." seems that's traditionally countries do, ill good. call statecraft balancing act. others refer pragmatism opportunism. it's certainly nothing abnormal international relations, especially comes smaller countries trying stay afloat stormy waters. also, country involved whole mess doesn't try "have ways"? could egyptians, condemned hamas opened indirect channel palestinian group gaza ? emiratis, accuse qatar interfering countries' affairs, intervening militarily libya , yemen countries? could saudis, speak regional stability waging reckless war yemen ? us, supports nato ally, turkey , simultaneously arming nemesis within, pyd/ pkk ? even begin compare qatar does? sure, qatar made mistakes early days arab spring , also seems learned past mistakes, notably idea diplomacy trumps war, mediation, openness reform safest best long-term bet evermore complicated region. qatar back best. like geneva gulf, hosted mediation efforts among various conflicting parties, palestinians, lebanese, sudanese, afghans, libyans others; certainly state region. whatever leverage so-called extremist groups, used effectively resolve, inflame conflict. opinion: blockading qatar, targeting iran alas, qatar's hostile neighbours seem concluded opposite adventures yemen well libya syria. decades destructive wars, they're advocating open confrontation tehran. sure, qatar long sided saudi arabia opposing iran's sectarian policies region, especially iraq syria. like arab western nations, opposes open showdown iran gulf, rejects idea regime change - especially iranians continue show support moderate governments frequently odds iranian extremists concerned building country regional hegemony. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5478309198001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5478309198001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: us 'mystified' gulf states' position towards qatar (2:17) pageloadedsuccessfully yet, us president allowed riyadh take draconian measures qatar even became clear pretexts false consequences, intended otherwise, leading serious escalation instability region. it's qatari behaviour, crisis trump inflamed it? bribed, duped complicit? one grudge trump might qatar lies fact that, unlike emiratis saudis, invested properties gave generous concessions, didn't give trump business incentives would allow expand brand country. banality couldn't really reason us president prone ride anti-qatar bandwagon, could it? alas, record, campaign, trump boast liking saudis buying $40 million apartments towers. considering tendency value money principle, everything else, us president clearly "bribed" saudi hosts visit country. offered trump administration hundreds billions dollars lucrative arms purchases promises investment asking guest support nemesis, qatar. indeed, saudis exploited trump's short-sighted consent outsource campaign "islamic terrorism" order frame qatar. also used opportunity deflect us accusations directed kingdom us congress media . read more: twitter users hit back saudi bloc's list demands humour trump might've also agenda correlated saudis emiratis. trump made strategic decision reverse obama's policy towards middle east committed administration support saudi arabia, israel, egypt uae sunni extremism iranian clerics. meant creating right conditions rapprochement israel, uae, egypt saudi arabia; so-called "outside-in" approach resolving - rather dissolving - palestinian issue. fact effort headed trump's inexperienced, radically zionist son-in-law, jared kushner, maintains close relations israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman, speaks volumes. witnessing "unholy trinity" that's bound destroy hope regional stability. worse, instead leading already quite disastrous regional coalition iran, trump lazily entrusted new strategy reckless junior allies. exactly predecessor, president barack obama , rejected. obama refused dragged petty squabbles regional confrontations. may weak syria, smart decouple us strategy regional clients, saudi arabia israel. short, obama refrained leveraging us power unsavoury inexperienced regional players, would utterly dangerous, totally suicidal. might explain reason experienced men women us state department pentagon didn't go along president trump's unconditional embrace riyadh, warned drinking abu dhabi's kool-aid. indeed, secretary tillerson "mystified" sudden escalation took initiative white house lash saudi arabia uae procrastination lack seriousness articulating grievances presenting demands qatar. also questioned motivations behind crisis, arguing manufactured crisis qatar settle old grievances nothing terrorism security. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5481360869001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5481360869001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: al jazeera: call closure siege journalism (2:43) pageloadedsuccessfully tillerson, former ceo exxonmobil, ample experience gulf region, insisted demands qatar must "reasonable actionable" order bring swift end crisis avoid compromising wider us interests. interestingly, since tillerson publicly reprimanded saudi arabia uae procrastination, president trump (thus far) kept quiet allowed qualified foreign policy chiefs handle crisis caution maturity. indeed, white house seemingly made another u-turn last week, saying gulf crisis " family issue " rather international crisis supporting terrorism. wait! what! family feud? really?! accusing qatar "historic high-level support terrorism" giving green light emirati saudi leaders behave recklessly? really possible classify crisis "family issue" band four exploited trump's folly besiege qatar, split gcc , plunge region downward spiral? damned demands list demands band four say qatar must comply order end crisis finally released, turned neither reasonable actionable. indeed, there's general consensus demands 13-point list anything "measured realistic", quote uk foreign secretary boris johnson. anything, wording, tone sweeping nature document signal total ignorance international law un charter. text underlines saudi arabia uae's unmasked intention take control qatar's sovereignty independent foreign policy. assumptions list, qatar's support islamic state iraq levant ( isil , known isis) al-qaeda, clearly baseless. contrary us insistence evidence support accusations, absolutely nothing document support outrageous claims. band four demands qatar downgrade diplomatic relations iran, even though uae iran's leading trading partner gcc, gcc members, oman kuwait , nurture stronger diplomatic relations tehran qatar. demanded qatar round opposition figures countries contravention international humanitarian law, demanded qatar treat muslims brotherhood terrorist organisation, mere opposition group, seen countries world. qatar, like western nations, long warned dangers implications sweeping generalisations labelling popular political opposition groups "terrorist". opinion: morocco chose neutral gulf crisis band four regimes also require qatar shut modest turkish military base hosting two years, continuing host us base. logical demand given uae hosting french military base bahrain american naval base? demand smacks total hypocrisy and, frankly, stupidity, one calls immediate shutdown al jazeera, affiliates media outlets presumably supported directly indirectly qatar. demands reflect saudi, emirati, egyptian bahraini intolerance difference opinion press freedom. countries attempting silence respectable media outlets finance support propaganda outlets infamous hate sectarian speech. fortunately, demand rejected condemned renowned media organisations, new york times guardian , well international rights organisations. last least, demand qatar complies 13 conditions 10 days, also consent provide monthly compliance reports, underline obvious fact band four willing resolve crisis anything short total surrender qatar's sovereignty. begs question: band four eager suppress al jazeera qatar's independent foreign policy? another major gulf conflict? tillerson finally weighed list demands past weekend, said difficult meet others may work base long-term dialogue. that's diplomatic way say demands actionable, measured realistic. band four threatening qatar "divorce" doesn't swiftly fully comply demands, clearly demonstrates crisis simple "family feud" rift caused qatar's alleged support terrorism. reality, quarrel little nothing combatting terrorism. four regimes responsible death tens thousands, hold tens thousands political prisoners. stop erase traces arab spring ideas envisioned minds arabs; namely, justice freedom speech. dreams may "contaminate" peoples gulf rest arab world. read more: analysis: implications qatar-turkey alliance insist shutting forums give voice ideas arab spring, including al jazeera, ending qatar's assistance support anyone group survived counterrevolution egypt rest arab world. unfortunately, despite dark, repressive reactionary nature, measures effect complement white house's embrace arab " thugs, dictators strongmen " expense peoples order narrowly advance trump's pro-israeli, anti-iranian anti-islamist agenda region. unless us european foreign policy establishments restrain trump presidency taking reckless steps, may heading towards regional chaos conflict. all, blowbacks another major showdown gulf worsen western arab security alike. alike. marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. follow facebook . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author marwan bishara marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. @ marwanbishara qatar gcc politics middle east
german chancellor merkel us president trump meeting first day g-20 summit hamburg [john macdougall/ap] starting united states america. us world's leading economy greatest military power, "soft power" dominating globe. us share global economy fell half less fifth since end world war ii. us influence declined sharply since end cold war, notably since reckless 2003 invasion iraq 2008 financial crisis. despite lethal military power, washington failed win single major war since world war ii . video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5493980422001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5493980422001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > japan-eu agree massive free-trade deal pageloadedsuccessfully lost vietnam war, failed miserably second gulf war (after succeeding liberating kuwait first gulf war), practical purposes, week's news koreas reminder 1950s korean war remains unfinished. north korea's success testing intercontinental ballistic missile seen slap face us menacing president independence day. emergence new regional global powers particularly challenging us power, likes china , eu, india resurgent russia limit capacity guide global agendas. president barack obama understood new international reality tried steer washington realistic, humble cooperative role global stage. us power might sufficient dictate economic strategic policies powers, long, go-to guarantor western-led international order. today, doubt perhaps going reverse. donald trump's amateurish reckless presidency undermining us leadership. much protectionism banal populist nationalism. rejection paris treaty climate change total embrace saudi arabia two examples. popularity anything go by, trump trailing far behind unlikely world leaders angela merkel . rise china opposite spectrum, china emerged formidable economic military competitor us world stage. within three decades, china became world's "leading factory", enjoying unprecedented trade surpluses double-digit growth creating massive wealth, investing heavily military especially naval power reckon with. moving forward, one power able lead complicated challenging international system emerged crises post-cold war era. course, size matters, china cruising steadily like aircraft carrier. it's also aggressive throwing weight around attract perhaps intimidate smaller neighbours. attempts obama administration contain china "asia pivot" failed miserably. today, chinese exploiting trump's shortsighted approach asia order expand influence continent. (reportedly, china happy see trump elected expected screw big time). contrast, strong stable presidency xi jinping enhanced china's global role. earlier year, gave speech davos economic forum world political economic leaders, first kind chinese leaders, order underline beijing's interest global leadership america turns inwards. xi even defended free trade "blind" nationalism indirect jab trump's "america first" policies. china may continue lag behind comes soft power innovation, human rights, capacity engineering exporting new models development attracting countries - large small - follow suit. g20 economies convene 9th annual meeting, little doubt enhanced role china alongside us, so-called g2 influencing group's decisions, big small. two aren't alone vying place top. eu, world's leading union speculations future european union quite negative since 2008 international financial crisis disproportionately affected europe's weaker economies. pessimism spread uk voted leave eu last year amid increasing pressures emboldened putin's russia east skeptical trump's america west. world's largest economic union rebounded, least psychologically, past several months elections, notably france , gave new momentum vigour. german-french partnerships allowed eu become largest economic market union today promises grow stronger duo merkel-macron. opinion: protests enough bring g20? seasoned experienced chancellor merkel emerged de facto leader union economic, also strategic, environmental humanitarian issues. week, hosts g20 summit, german chancellor popular country around world us president. it's indeed paradoxical two great powers defeated world war ii, germany japan, emerged trump era two steady voices liberal world order. although seen voice reason new global challenges environment refugees, merkel also proven calculating and, would even say, "merkevilian" politician able successfully manoeuvre way around traps pitfalls european world politics. way, merkel's power influence enhanced amplified eu, emerging attractive third choice, nicely positioned middle trump's america xi's china. however, disadvantage, administratively complicated slow-functioning eu tends take back seat american chinese leadership enjoy greater capacity deliberate respond. multipolar world? three leading powers, us, china eu, along respective leaders, present distinct contrasted models, visions governing styles increasingly looks like post-american world. multipolar world french president jacques chirac preached around 2003 gulf crisis france germany opposed 2003 invasion iraq finally upon us. moving forward, one power able lead complicated challenging international system emerged crises post-cold war era. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5494292870001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5494292870001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > trump criticises russia poland speech pageloadedsuccessfully dollar, pentagon , hollywood harvard might leading now, us hegemony wanes, lot represents world. or, tune times globalisation, american brands probably become global less american time. far democratic world, slowly surely moving away bipolarity cold war unipolarity immediate aftermath. one could wish world powers show ever needed responsibility, maturity capacity meet challenges 21st century less conflict cooperation. wishful thinking? marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. follow facebook . author marwan bishara marwan bishara senior political analyst al jazeera. @ marwanbishara united states politics us & canada china germany
iran effective advancing regional interests banner "moderation" "reform" , writes bishara[reuters] voters iran heading polls friday elect new president, crucial election seen many potential battleground reformists fundementalists. reformist front-runner incumbent president hassan rouhani, signed 2015's historic nuclear deal world powers. fundementalist favourite, hand, judge ebrahim raisi, protegee ali khamenei, iran's powerful supreme leader. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5432759630001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5432759630001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > front: rouhani succeeded reforming iran? (12:00) pageloadedsuccessfully result may 19 election undoubtedly shape iran's domestic politics coming years - also effect country's foreign policy? marwan bishara, al jazeera's senior political analyst, offers view impact election might iran's regional policies ambitions. iran's presidential elections impact foreign policy? marwan bishara: expect impact stylistic rhetorical substantial. generally speaking, presidential election iran likely shape domestic agenda rather foreign one, fundementalist vs reformist divide shapes iran's election campaigns relevant internal politics. comes foreign policy, iranian president serves second command khamenei, actual head state commander-in-chief country's armed forces. read more: need know iran's presidential election iran's national security, extension foreign policy, lie within authority supreme leader supreme national security council (snsc), works according guidelines. two sides iran's political spectrum: - conservative fundementalist establishment, controls iran's economic might islamic revolutionary guard corp's commercial enterprises vast financial resources religious endowments. candidates: ebrahim raisi, mostafa mirsalim reformist bloc, prefers political, economic social liberalisation opening iran foreign investment. candidates: hassan rouhani, mostafa hashemitaba, eshaq jahangiri snsc formed revision spearheaded khamenei 1989 - year became country's supreme leader. president presides snsc's dozen members selects secretary, decision council must approved supreme leader go effect. decision approved, president considerable influence implementation - mostly diplomatic sphere. however, comes national security regional affairs, powerful establishment figures head republican guards, also exercise considerable influence execution policy. say election ideologue like raisi would certain unintended consequences iran regional policy. supporters iranian president presidential candidate hassan rouhani pose pictures election camping rally tehran, iran [epa] get unintended consequences, explain change policy ex-president mahmoud ahmadinejad rouhani leading signing nuclear deal? bishara: elections important express mood nation. supreme leader doesn't much influence results ruling establishment. new president usually comes popular mandate influence. kind executive authority that, say, turkish, russian us president has. contrast many believe, so-called moderates iran may use less bombastic slogans, less nationalistic conservatives. furthermore, strategic regional environment changed greatly time ahmadinejad rouhani's presidential tenures. ex-us president barack obama's second term office, washington readier strike nuclear weapons deal tehran. iran also stronger negotiating position thanks progress nuclear enrichment programme us' failures iraq, afghanistan, syria, libya elsewhere, emboldened regionally. addition, iran's economic stagnation ahmadinejad main reason propelled rouhani presidency mandate break iran's diplomatic isolation improve economy increased oil revenues investments. rouhani's resounding victory last presidential election echoed loud clear supreme leader's chambers. khamenei well aware challenges, well opportunities lied ahead decided, direct appeal us president, grant rouhani's government latitude necessary reach deal us improve economic relations west. opinion: iran's presidential election puts populism test khamenei approved deal - even arguably violated red lines. although remained vocal critic west, khamenei later asked critics seize attacks nuclear deal. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5424211586001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5424211586001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: iran presidential hopefuls face-off second election debate (2:16) pageloadedsuccessfully clear final presidential debate last week two leading opposition candidates - raisi mohammad ghalibaf, recently dropped race - eager criticise rouhani lack economic dividends nuclear deal, signing. iran likely continue pragmatic policy towards us west general. contrary conventional wisdom, tehran quite practical dealings us since akbar hashemi rafsanjani presidency 1990s (following first us gulf war), mohammad khatami's, (following 9/11 attacks invasion afghanistan), even ahmadinejad presidency (following us/iranian backing sectarian nouri al-maliki government iraq). iran benefitted greatly obama's decision change us' middle east strategy on-shore intervention - iraq, afghanistan libya - off-shore balancing. allowed tehran gain considerable power iraq expand influence neighbouring arab countries, leading deepening sectarianism likes iraq syria. obama's insistence early withdrawal iraq reluctance intervene syria de facto enhanced iran's influence region. don't think next iranian president, regardless identity ideology, could would roll back iran's gains nuclear deal take country back isolation. supporters iranian presidential candidate mohammad bagher ghalibaf hold pictures election campaign rally jame mosque city varamin, iran [epa] unintended consequences mentioned earlier regarding iran's middle east policy? bishara: advent ideological president like raisi likely complicate tehran's regional role without enhancing influence. anything, could well backfire iran. contrast many believe, so-called moderates iran may use less bombastic slogans, less nationalistic conservatives. "moderates" like rouhani reckon iran's would benefit certain degree liberalism openness outside world, conservatives, like fundamentalist raisi, feed sentiments hostility towards us. see relations west corrupting counterproductive. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5432741707001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5432741707001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > front: human rights iran (3:24) pageloadedsuccessfully rouhani's presidency, iran aggressive indeed cynical pursuing interests middle east ahmadinejad - times trampling neighbours' stability attain greater strategic political leverage. iran effective advancing regional interests banner "moderation" "reform" rouhani justifies defends khamenei's middle east policies. ideological government would alienate russia give us, saudi arabia israel reason push back iran's strategy iraq, syria gulf region. meanwhile, iranians watching alarm eve elections, saudi leaders aggressively trying enlist us president donald trump's support tehran ahead upcoming visit kingdom later week. reports washington speak saudi plans buy $100-300bn us arms invest $40bn us economy, hopes money buy leverage influence trump administration. emboldened trump's rhetoric, saudi leaders already threatened move "battle" iran iran spreads gulf region, soliciting counter iranian threat attack kingdom. unfortunate escalation continues iran elects "extremist" ideologue, it'll make easier riyadh, washington tel aviv build regional coalition tehran. otherwise, expect second-term rouhani government. alas, choices leadership iran, like rest region - beyond? - seem balance bad worse. source: al jazeera news iran 2017 events elections politics middle east
renderpagesvideo('2196264591001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); least 34 people reported killed hundreds injured protests bangladesh member opposition sentenced death war crimes. delwar hossain sayedee, 73, third prominent figure jamaat-e-islami party found guilty mass killings court set investigate abuses country's 1971 war independence pakistan. jamaat, country's largest islamist party, called 48-hour national strike sunday, amid clashes opposition supporters police left nearly 200 people injured dozen districts across country. dhaka, bangladeshi capital, tense run-up verdict. 10,000 policemen patrol government also deployed border guards reinforcement prevent violence. schools shops shut roads dhaka inter-city motorways empty. mass killing charges sayedee, vice-president jamaat, found guilty charges mass killing, rape, arson, looting religious persecution liberation war, lawyers tribunal officials said thursday. "the verdict appropriately demonstrated justice. happy," haider ali, state prosecutor, said. lawyers sayedee boycotted tribunal verdict. "i didn't commit crime judges giving verdict core heart," told court. previously denied allegations said charges politically motivated. jamaat denounced trial. earlier month, tribunal sentenced abdul qader molla, jamaat's assistant secretary general, life imprisonment, leading deadly protests left 16 people dead. secular protests molla's verdict enraged secular protesters, tens thousands since poured onto dhaka's shahbag square reject "lighter sentence" demand execution jamaat leaders. another jamaat leader, maulana abul kalam azad, sentenced death absentia last month. seven top leaders jamaat trial alleged role atrocities liberation war. sheikh hasina wajed, bangladesh prime minister, set tribunal 2010 investigate abuses independence war that, many accounts, claimed three million lives thousands bengali women raped. tribunal, domestic body international oversight, criticised opposition targeting members. scale recent secular protests show large section bangladeshis support moves punish linked atrocities liberation war. source: al jazeera agencies politics asia bangladesh pakistan
abe discussed north korea's nuclear programme mongolian president tsakhia elbegdorj saturday [afp] shinzo abe, japanese prime minister, sought support mongolia japan's east china sea islands dispute china visit former communist country. abe arrived mongolian capital ulaanbatar saturday seek closer trade diplomatic ties mineral-rich nation. mongolia potentially important strategic partner location china's northern border diplomatic ties north korea. "i asked mongolian support relating chinese situation mongolia expressed understanding japanese position," abe said response questions journalists islands. "i understand mongolian situation regarding issue." abe held summit meetings chinese leaders since took power december. 'door open' talks abe said press conference, followed meetings mongolian president tsakhia elbegdorj prime minister norov altankhuyag, "the door open talks" china. abe also discussed north korea's nuclear ambitions mongolia first day two-day visit. north korea declared saturday "state war" south korea provocation south united states would escalate nuclear conflict. "i explained japanese position north korean actions provocation never accept them," abe said. "we shouldn't allow provocative act north korea." abe aims develop closer economic ties mongolia first visit japanese prime minister former communist country almost seven years. mineral-rich country mongolia huge mineral deposits disposal japan hopes secure fuel resources abroad atomic power plans affected fukushima nuclear crisis, set earthquake tsunami march 2011. china currently mongolia's leading trade partner source foreign investment. "as mongolia rich natural resources, japan's technological co-operation lead win-win countries," abe said. abe's visit came ying-jeou ma, president taiwan, commissioned saturday new 2,000-tonne xinbei cutter vessel boost patrol islands japan claims senkakus china diaoyus. vessel equipped machine guns water cannons join fleet smaller ships patrol islands. renewed calls parties negotiate set aside claims islands jointly develop rich natural resources there. source: agencies politics asia us & canada china japan
delhi sex attack sparked street protests india's failure protect women violence [al jazeera] court india scheduled hand first long-delayed verdict one suspects tried fatal gang-rape physiotherapist student december last year. special juvenile court capital, new delhi, expected issue order saturday role teenager accused gangrape murder young student, sparked public outrage . court delayed releasing verdict four times since wrapping case teenager charged savage attack moving bus december 16. supreme court month cleared way principal magistrate deliver verdict, ruling could disregard legal challenge cited main reason delay. given number delays far, lawyers involved case said hopeful rather confident finally hearing decision. "hopefully, verdict delivered time," rajesh tiwari, lawyer juvenile, told afp news agency. six men initially arrested crime 23-year-old student raped assaulted iron bar. male companion also allegedly beaten thrown bus. student died singapore hospital two weeks later internal injuries inflicted attack. attack sparked street protests india's failure protect women violence led parliament passing tougher law sex crime. gang-rape 22-year-old photographer financial hub mumbai month rekindled anger safety women india. possible death sentence found guilty, juvenile, 17 time crime, sent correctional facility maximum three-year term. includes time already spent custody waiting verdict. trial four adult suspects continues, expected wrap next weeks, men facing possible death sentence convicted. fifth adult died jail apparent suicide. juvenile, youngest six children, according mother, employed clean bus allegedly used attack often slept rough inside vehicle, reports say. reportedly left home aged 11 live new delhi took series menial jobs landing work cleaning bus. parents victim called daughter's attackers hanged. criticised view leniency juvenile justice system, seeks reform rather punish criminals aged 18. source: agencies asia india
caracas, venezuela - venezuela midst severe economic crisis. country, though one richest natural resources, called worst economy 2016 international monetary fund, inflation rate could reach 700 percent end year. today, biggest concern venezuelans food shortage, together rampant crime lack medicine. every day, thousands people reach supermarkets shops, sometimes early dawn, patiently waiting long lines buy pieces basic food items, rice flour, lower price set government. alternative "colas" (food lines spanish) found expensive supermarkets, wealthy afford shop. others rely "bachaqueros", food smugglers re-sell street subsidised goods much higher prices. watch: life line - inside venezuela's crisis slums caracas, situation difficult. many families unable provide two three meals day children. lunch often consists banana piece bread. result climate uncertainty helplessness, crime rising fast venezuela, especially caracas, already ranked 2015 violent city world. rest country, food crisis worse, health workers noted increased cases malnutrition within poorest segments population. related: venezuelans flock across border due food shortage
antioquia, colombia - antioquia heartland colombian gold trade since colonial times, spanish conquerors came search mythical el dorado. northeast province lies segovia, tiny township 400 years produced gold, chiselled walls thousands underground tunnels. afro-descendant indigenous colombians worked artisanal miners decades, using techniques ancestors, spanish enslaved mine land. since early 2000s, price precious metal risen, region experienced violent gold rush leftist guerrillas, neo-paramilitary outfits drug trafficking groups established presence control mining operations. illegally mined gold fuelling violence gold overtaken cocaine main source revenue armed groups. illegal mining colombia brings approximately $7bn year (link spanish) armed groups criminal bands. segovia centre violence. almost 20 percent colombia's gold produced nearly 50 mines operating there, according segovia's mayor's office. local villagers - many artisanal miners - shaken extortions, threats, territorial disputes grudge fights. miners, including rural colombians across country come search work, working mountains riverbanks, forced pay "tax" armed group controls area. informal miners also killed forcibly displaced armed groups. "you pay them. not, kill you," says carlos mario alvarez, 60-year-old mining leader. handful mines owned gran colombia gold, canada-based multinational. one mines includes cogote, successful informal mining cooperative, whose licence colombian government sold canadian multinational. since 2015, president juan manuel santos' administration prioritised cracking unlicensed mining order cut lucrative source income armed groups curb mercury poisoning rivers - traditional miners use chemical separate gold earth metals - environmental damage, conjunction legalisation programme region's traditional miners. many miners feel caught armed groups government's clampdown informal mining. alvarez, "being miner job part colombia, identity." child, he'd bring lunch father mines finishing school. alvarez dropped school start working "catanguero" (a carrier) mines 14 years old. "i'm currently owner mine," says proudly. "but government wants take ... us." alvarez says government's reform unlicensed mining facade. "the government forcing us favour multinational companies," says. "he [santos] wants open way multinational investors buy land."
cannon ball, united states - thousands native americans camping north dakota since april protest pipeline meant cross sacred burial grounds missouri river - main water source standing rock sioux tribe. last week, protesters moved camp directly path proposed pipeline construction nears river, thursday morning, police descended camp show force yet seen months peaceful protests. clad riot gear backed armoured vehicles, police cleared protest camp, using sound cannons, pepper spray, taser guns, shotguns said contain beanbags protesters. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5189568503001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5189568503001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > north dakota pipeline: protesters clash police pageloadedsuccessfully 100 people arrested, including elders praying peacefully roadway, according morton county sheriff department. department said protester fired three shots police, al jazeera could independently verify allegation. protesters shouted police, built lit fire barricades, threw water bottles logs officers tensions rose, remained nonviolent protest leaders urged colleagues fall back superior government force. police continued march south night, blocked burning barricade set protesters dusk fell.
sami al-hajj held without trial afghanistan guantanamo six years [al jazeera] doha, qatar - young boy growing sennar, agricultural sudanese town blue nile, developed keen interest journalism. enthused rich culture history surroundings – sennar capital historic kingdom - began writing school college publications. time go university, left home headed india, spent five years studying political science sociology. always maintained passion media. upon returning sudan, worked father several months, made way united arab emirates. heard new channel set qatar – al jazeera. felt compelled join. eventually taken on, intention would become channel's chechnya correspondent. wife region deep interest it. 9/11 happened everything changed. pakistan october 7, 2001, found pakistan, preparing cross afghanistan cover war al jazeera cameraman. days later, october 11, crossed quetta, pakistan side border. us bombing kabul north country, night also attacking airport kandahar. heading – taliban's power base. kandahar, taliban kept close eye journalists work. would get permission film would accompanied taliban official. one occasion, covertly used small camera made way marketplace – hoping capture uncensored image city residents. caught, arrested detained mosque 12 hours. war continued, crossed back forth afghanistan pakistan. become well known border guards and, african face pakistan, wasn't easily forgotten. came surprise when, december 15, attempted cross back pakistan, stopped. guantanamo files: dozens held innocent remember day clearly. last ramadan. taliban pushed kandahar al jazeera wanted us report life city departure. worried route in, felt relieved arrived border crossing found full journalists. must 70 us, world. wouldn't let cross. knew border guard stopped me. paper, said, directing arrest "sami, al jazeera cameraman". seemed relatively innocuous time; must kind mistake. guard acknowledged journalist. spoke calmly, politely even. intelligence officer came. read more: growing guantanamo one point, gave option taking passport heading back islamabad. job do, felt sure would resolved soon. spent night border guard's office. next day, telephoned intelligence officer. either come take him, i'll let go, heard say. thirty minutes later, intelligence officer arrived. taken office arrested. flight felt like something horror film. beaten randomly. time landed, feet numb cold, bodies frozen stiff. sami al-hajj still, strangely amicable. treated well. case mistaken identity, assured me. waiting released. free move around office allowed call family. even brought doctor see cold grew worse. hours turned days – would spend 23 total. time, i'd listen news small radio. one day, report incident involving arab prisoner; attacked pakistani guards bus escaped. that, noticed armed guard outside room. bagram then, one night, moved. taken airport group arabs. around 25 30 us. handed american soldiers. bags placed heads handcuffed human chain. loaded military cargo plane. flight felt like something horror film. beaten randomly. time landed, feet numb cold, bodies frozen stiff. rolled plane runway. twisted ankle fell. bagram airbase american custody. soldiers hyped up, angry; sort aggression could come extreme fear. strip searched us asked fighting america. truly seemed believe enemies kind holy war. began question osama bin laden. thought i'd interviewed report broadcast al jazeera weeks earlier. wanted know knew whereabouts. course, mistaken. never met interviewed bin laden. questioning revealed that, even case mistaken identity, doubt fact journalist. guantanamo remembered: personal perspective looking back it, believe pakistanis handed fully aware wasn't "sami" americans looking for. playing game. simply got caught bid convince americans cooperating – strongly doubt one. bagram brutal. held hangar, 20 prisoners cage. weren't allowed move, talk, stand look one another. wondered prisoners wished could know stories. even listened conversations soldiers, hoping glean kind insight lives. seemed young. would take pictures posed, rambo-style, front us flag. interrogated bagram, air intimidation ever-present. noise constant – dogs barking, planes landing taking off, guns fired, people screaming. couldn't understand treating us like this. wasn't america knew films i'd seen. kept getting flashbacks movies, trying reconcile taking place around me. reminded would least make interesting story, ever able write it. kandahar 17 days bagram, transferred kandahar. conditions better there. stayed tents – 15 prisoners each. psychological torture continued. would make us watch dropped koran toilet buckets; would try make us feel uncomfortable way could. remember overhearing soldier say: "let's torture them, wanted kill us." questioned al jazeera. acknowledged wasn't person looking for. still wasn't released. every month, sent 40 prisoners somewhere else. first, didn't know "somewhere" was. gradually came learn place called guantanamo. five months, among last group prisoners kandahar sent there. guantanamo flight took day so, hard tell exactly long. went first turkey, switched planes american airbase. flew cargo plane, seated log soldiers standing behind us. wore headphones goggles mouths covered entire time. eating going toilet. back kandahar, people learned transported, would stop eating drinking day before. still people wet journey. landed guantanamo, taken one one medical check-up fingerprints photograph taken. sent straight interrogation. three people questioned – one cia, one fbi another military intelligence. lasted three hours. process breaking us began immediately. never stopped. sleep deprivation key component psychological torture. prevented sleeping seven consecutive days. time, one round interrogations, male soldier female soldier intercourse front me. things happened, would go somewhere else mind – memorising koran calculating prayer times. soldiers colour treated us humanely others. remember one, particular, explained follow orders. sami al-hajj prisoners lost it. could see happening. one stood spot days. others would shout out. "let god come save you," soldiers would sneer. many restrictions. weren't allowed talk stand cells. allowed take shower week did, forced walk naked cell shower. soldiers colour treated us humanely others. remember one, particular, explained follow orders. became clear weren't going released conditions weren't going improve, us embarked hunger strike. european prisoners suggested way negotiating. became form protest. already hungry wasn't hard do, especially realised freedom precious food. would drink water, wouldn't eat anything. way resisting. but, 30 days hunger strike, force-feeding would begin. hard convey traumatic is. became form torture itself. would tie us hands legs force tube nose. time, fluid would enter lungs. we'd coughing choking lungs filled liquid. often, they'd over-feed us vomited. even threw up, they'd keep going. vomit would dry faces bodies. weren't allowed clean away smell became unbearable. they'd use tube multiple prisoners without cleaning it. sami's colleagues held regular events mark detention guantanamo ensure forgotten [al jazeera] began longest hunger strike 2007. lasted 480 days ended time guantanamo over. kept telling i'd released immediately stopped it. wanted know would never collaborate them. i'd told many times i'd freed, reason believe now. african american soldiers showed press coverage hunger strike, inspired keep going. could see impact. would eat guantanamo, vowed. campaign already started haissa manna secure release many behind-the-scenes efforts taking place. then, finally, 2008, lawyer, clive stafford smith, told freed, along eight others. arrived sudanese capital, khartoum, may 1, 2008. sami taken hospital khartoum immediately return sudan [al jazeera] guantanamo time guantanamo, met around 90 percent inmates there. tell none met ever threat us. young men – afghan farmers uighur refugees escaping persecution china; others humanitarian workers. detainee cases ever gone trial. today, still innocent people – people told pose threat – guantanamo. read more: life guantanamo inhumane place; insult humanity. even american leaders understand tarnished country's reputation. countries – already appalling human rights records – sent clear message: please. finally free, understood duty link journalism human rights. unique position journalist personally endured grave human rights abuses. became mission. human rights centre given work do, stories tell, made sense al jazeera champion cause. formed unit focused human rights. human rights public liberties centre prioritises human rights issues makes available journalists suffer similar abuses worldwide. are, all, conduits informing others rights, protection key protection. journalists continue face toughest dangerous working conditions. fact, may worse previous time. sami al-hajj became international icon wrongly imprisoned around world [al jazeera] working towards creating stronger laws protection journalists and, november, helped formulate doha declaration, specifically dedicated protecting journalists worldwide. distinguishes us centre manner collect curate stories. work closely organisations human rights watch doctors without borders. provide researchers, journalists activists forum ideas exchanged stories told. collaborate human rights defenders ngos exploring stories neglected mainstream media, helping us plug gaps set agenda. take al jazeera's stance refugee crisis europe. calling fleeing war persecution " refugees", rather "migrants" , changed discourse status europe. things like define us. tell stories; advocates. newsrooms experts finance politics, economics sport. journalists specialise human rights, may better placed tell powerful stories? specialised branch reflects commitment prioritising human rights producing better journalists. believe way forward hold countries, governments organisations account. way. story first appeared human rights public liberties centre website. source: al jazeera guantanamo bay war & conflict human rights us & canada journalism
sixteen-year-old mohammed abu khdeir israeli court convicted israeli man kidnapping killing 16-year-old palestinian mohammed abu khdeir rejected defendant's defence team plea insanity. court ruled tuesday yosef haim ben david, 33, sane control actions accomplices kidnapped murdered abu khdeir july 2, 2014. ben david initially convicted last november murder, kidnapping purpose murder, assault, court postponed conviction psychological evaluation ben david conducted claimed insanity. abu khdeir walking home shuafat neighbourhood east jerusalem kidnapped forced car taken jerusalem forest beaten burned alive . ben david confessed police planned kidnap murder arab. israel court finds two guilty palestinian's murder abu khdeir's father, hussein, told al jazeera home jerusalem although verdict right, bring back child . "our hearts broken ever. son mohammed burned terrorists, feel getting burned every day ever since lost him," hussein said. added wife endure almost two years arduous court proceedings often lasted eight hours order reach point. "the murder son changed lives ever. suffer depression cannot go lives keep thinking mohammed happened him," hussain said. also accused israeli justice system "racism", saying "dragging feet terrorists case happened jewish". added: "if arabs accused terrorism, case would ended conviction two three sessions." autopsy shows palestinian teen 'burned alive' lawyer abu khdeir family, mohannad jbara, spoke al jazeera via phone jerusalem, said conviction right decision court. "we glad court finally moved convict defendant agreed position held responsible horrific crime," jbara said. sentencing hearing set may 3, according jbara, expects court hand life sentence minimum, stipulated israeli law, horrific nature crime. two defendants, minors time crime, convicted earlier sentenced 21 years life prison. jbara said conviction, court opened door abu khdeir family members, designated "victims terror" israeli law, petition israeli interior ministry demolish homes convicted israelis, live illegal israeli settlement adam, occupied west bank. also plans submit requests government revoke citizenship convicted israelis, accordance israeli laws. "this important step family want israeli government justice system treat palestinians victims terror acts committed israelis equal israel considers palestinian acts terrorism towards israelis," added. al jazeera tried several times reach officials israeli government comment case one answered phone email time publication. follow ali younes twitter: @ali_reports source: al jazeera middle east palestine east jerusalem israel
niger state, nigeria - april may 2015, 28 children kawo magiro, two remote villages niger state, mysteriously died days suffering symptoms convulsions, insomnia hallucinations. local authorities sought help doctors without borders (msf), running lead poisoning intervention programme neighbouring zamfara state past five years. outbreak lead poisoning zamfara state discovered 2010 . killed least 400 inhabitants, mainly children, vulnerable owing ccess inadvertent ingestion contaminated objects . msf discovered children niger state died owing extremely high levels lead bodies. according dr simba tirima, environmental scientist following situation closely past six years, outbreak resulted unregulated rudimentary processing lead-rich gold ores villages. villagers grind rocks order separate gold, resulting dust containing high levels lead settles soil nearby surfaces, exposing locals poison. map: africa's natural resources miners niger state may encountered lead-rich vein found zamfara, says tirima. estimated 3,000 residents two villages exposed lead. moderate levels, lead poisoning cause long-term physical mental health problems, including aggressive behaviour, cognitive impairment infertility, says tirima. present, stay body decades even pass placenta unborn child. collaborative efforts msf, terragraphis international foundation nigerian authorities contained outbreaks zamfara niger state, problem affected communities yet resolved.
frontline ukraine , group volunteer fighters composing unit nationalist battalion ukrainian volunteer army, operates side side official ukrainian troops. volunteers, majority nationalist leanings, still flooding war zone, despite widespread belief volunteer battalions fully incorporated structure military. although operate heavy weaponry tanks artillery, supported ukrainian troops do. volunteers become hardened nationalists, time spent intense combat front. many disapprove way government handled war, still refuse acknowledge such, instead referring anti-terrorist operation. view government's willingness accept onerous ceasefire terms nothing short treason, asking justifies sacrificed lives comrades. believed maidan revolution 2014 would bring new ukraine, separatists started conflict eastern ukraine, went fight thought maidan - ukraine. looking around, say see old ukraine, many players, simply reorganised. read - ukraine: dangerous game
total 2.4 million people northeastern nigeria, cameroon, chad niger displaced rise boko haram. since december 2014, communities around lake chad fleeing sound gunfire, sight houses flames memory loved ones murdered boko haram fighters. nigeria , displaced within country, others forced seek refuge across lake neighbouring states. 7,000 nigerian refugees landed chadian side lake, living dar es salam camp, outside town bagasola. chad , along provinces border lake, seen economy take hit, closure borders resulted slowdown trade, herding, farming fishing. environmental tolls due climate change also affected communities surrounding lake chad, including refugee population. desertification, deforestation, intruding vegetation, soil salinity drought suffocating livelihoods aggravating poverty, making lake chad fertile ground boko haram recruitment. today, nearly twentieth size back 1960s, lake chad continues shrink invasive plant species grow, covering nearly half lake's surface. undesired vegetation grows lake's floor dry seasons, water levels rise following rainfall, deprives surrounding communities, including refugees, access lake's open waters. due vulnerability environment threat rainfall fluctuations, livelihood programmes priority humanitarian organisations. far, united nations refugee agency helped 150 households fishing boats material. beneficiaries make average $10 week, contributes towards sustaining families. programme, however, covers 8 percent nigerian refugees chad. funding needed include fishermen, farmers, herders traders refugee local communities.
water tank washing hands stands front municipal centre west point slum monrovia, february 10, 2016 [john moore/getty images] monrovia, liberia - storm liberia began three years ago summer. word ebola first passed radio ear across country spring. june, disease ethereal curiosity, vaguely menacing thankfully confined faraway guinean jungles likely butt joke conspiracy theory monrovia cause real concern. month one devastating year later, nearly 5,000 liberians killed disease. many unceremoniously cremated remote site near beach, fragments bones dumped oil drums buried near pyres hastily set government part euphemistically dubbed "safe burial" programme. thousands survived disease, leaving foreboding treatment units empty homes, lives turned upside loss loved ones, aching joints heartache daily price ledger victory. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5350193687001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5350193687001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > rewind: liberia: aftermath ebola (25:37) pageloadedsuccessfully encountered ebola frantic months mid-to-late-2014 share strange bond: whether health workers faced tragedy every day struggle save lives, survivors confronted imperative move forward despite immeasurable loss, journalists found near heart outbreak's daily nightmares, sense disquiet quickly storm appeared vanished. jarring memories set course lives dwell unvisited corners mind, quite collecting dust shared generously either, framed grief, guilt, cocktail emotions. liberians, outbreak always confusing footnote country's modern history, unsettling moment best left past lest conjured back existence. few, disease left deep marks. carry memories panicked, terrible time forever. three years began, stories. dr jerry brown doctor dr jerry brown operating patient elwa hospital [photo courtesy dr brown] ebola crisis peak international news attention, autumn 2014, typical cable television viewer probably imagined "ebola doctor" european american volunteer, moved compassion noble impulse join response. without doubt, many doctors fit archetype, heroes. health workers front lines response liberia liberians. nurses, technicians, doctors hit disproportionately virus, dying high numbers, particularly early days outbreak nobody yet sure protect themselves. time crisis wound spring 2015, 288 liberian health workers listed "confirmed probable" ebola cases. summer 2014, dr jerry brown medical director eternal love winning africa hospital outskirts monrovia. known elwa hospital, facility one first care ebola patients. august 2014, two american missionary doctors working there, kent brantly nancy writebol, infected evacuated united states , signalling start ebola's prominence news bulletins across world. now, brown sits behind desk administrative wing hospital, expanded maze one-storey concrete units reopened great fanfare last year. sound generator powers wing hums angrily background blue scrubs frame face smiles gently, almost sadly, remembers months ebola fighter. two american doctors liberian nurse fell ill, panic gripped staff members hospital urged brown close hospital. "some said, 'if get infected come house hug wife,'" remembers, laughing memory colleagues' fury decision keep emergency room open. says despite risks, closing hospital would led preventable deaths routine emergencies, pointing ledger list procedures performed summer. "if shut hospital down, would happened people?" video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5465547121001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5465547121001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > talk al jazeera: return liberia - life surviving ebola (25:30) pageloadedsuccessfully mid-august, number cases began skyrocket monrovia, jumping less 100 new patients week july nearly 300 week. doctors without borders opened large treatment unit near elwa, liberian ministry health asked dr brown set parallel unit nearby. "we said don't want missionary doctors joining unit," recalls. "we liberians, liberian staff. didn't want expatriates dying unit. want give us support, take supplies, want take care patients own." unit, known elwa2, set care 60 patients, quickly housing upwards 100, lying mats floor. doctors without borders suspended administration intravenous rehydration, citing concerns staff safety, brown's unit continued provide iv fluids patients, sometimes directly jugular vein difficult procedure carried risk infection staff. saw colleague, another doctor, lying stretcher pool blood, staff began bathe patients beds. "i said, depression kill people. [the protective equipment] wearing protect us fluids, anybody give reason can't give patients bed baths?" months, team worked 12 15 hours day, seven days week. "what motivated staff work harder every time saw someone survive, kind jubilation. felt achieved kind victory," says. sometimes, look things did, ask foolish? ... think moved quest see someone live dr jerry brown first 49 patients brown staff treated july august, one survived. september, survival rate unit high 45 percent. night, would pore medical journals, hoping glean insight might push higher. finally, february, months worked many 12 hours day unit, cases liberia declined enough dr brown felt time leave. "sometimes, look things did, ask foolish? force driving this?" says. "i think moved quest see someone live." now, brown back medical director general surgeon elwa hospital, performing variety procedures low-income patients visit hospital. building fought ebola reverted back intended purpose laundromat cafeteria. tried eat once. "i began imagine things happened there, people dying, walked away," says. brown says surprised quickly three years since crisis passed by, experience treating ebola patients changed forever. "it made humble. life whole nothing brag about. go away time. can't say i'm doctor brag it, anything happen time. made less afraid death." foday gallah ambulance driver foday gallah [ashoka mukpo/al jazeera] peak crisis, sound sirens pervasive monrovia. ambulances would screech along main highways way overcrowded treatment centres would often wait hours patients carrying admitted. ubiquitously visible ambulances adorned picture name local politician, representative saah joseph, raised funds abroad purchase two used ambulances. foday gallah, stocky 38-year-old booming laugh broad smile one drivers selected joseph work ambulances months outbreak. gallah nursing student time ambitions becoming doctor. now, amid clink silverware upscale hotel dining room near pristine liberian beach, gallah remembers time far removed peace luxury surrounds him. feel lot pride able help people midst fear others running away foday gallah early spring 2014, first cases put health officials country edge, colleagues gallah's sent northern liberia receive training deal ebola patients. "when came back said, foday, saw, careful. might enter monrovia," says. summer, prediction come true, along drivers, gallah began responding dozens calls every day across monrovia. "we stopped responding normal cases because, then, doctors nurses running away," says. "we couldn't blame nobody understood virus running lives. people needed fill gaps country could safe." cases mounted, calls became frequent panicked. sometimes, would respond find hostile family members refused believe relatives sick ebola. times, patients would die ambulance en route treatment unit. stress began take toll him. "it terrible, leader, brave storm. shown discouragement fear, [the workers] wouldn't brave, muster courage. fear me," remembers. gallah's private telephone number became direct line scared relatives looking someone pick sick family members life became haze manic journeys weaving traffic across town. "i never call night," says. "in fact, night, calls would triple." august, gallah received call pick members family fallen ill. days later, returned house pick rest family, also begun show symptoms. en route ambulance, young boy cradling arms vomited onto protective equipment. less week later, gallah decided take first day weeks. midway day, helping disinfect neighbour's house, began feel feverish experience pains joints. "i couldn't even stand, knew," says. gallah's colleagues drove doctors without borders treatment unit. "all doctors nurses knew me," remembers. "they downhearted, came looking sorrow." two weeks, gallah fought disease. patients lying beside died front eyes, remained resolute, drinking juices joseph sent steeling pain. finally, received news would survive. returned home, gallah weak ride ambulance, began taking calls again, helping direct colleagues towards urgent cases. first, neighbours avoided refused shake hand fear might still carrying virus. "i ashamed go around people," says. "sometimes, would sit around cry. cried out, i'd feel okay." slowly, stigma subsided, community began embrace again. "it turning point me," recalls. "if family community accept me, get it." gallah struggled joint pains fatigue months discharged, says time passed, he's come terms went through. "the first time drove [doctors without borders] unit, cried. it's normal, pass go meetings," says. "life go on." "i feel lot pride able help people midst fear others running away. feel proud god able use help somebody." gallah frustrated feels liberian government's neglect health workers survivors, country's eagerness quickly move soon death toll fell. "it happened, saw it," says. "i felt it. lived it." dominic kollie survivor dominic kollie, kakata [ashoka mukpo/al jazeera] first met dominic kollie september 2014. kollie contracted survived ebola month earlier. gaunt 22-year-old, lost 24 members family hired doctors without borders work psychosocial counsellor sick patients unit. met february 2015, broken. spoke mournfully family, tears streaming face. particularly close mother, loss hit hard. told life felt like "empty room". now, kollie nearly unrecognisable. put looks like 20 pounds muscle cuts imposing figure camouflage armed forces liberia uniform. year discharged treatment, accepted army recruit. speeding choked monrovia thoroughfare worn toyota corolla blaring horn slow-moving taxis, speaks clipped tones soldier. kollie carved new life himself, resilience shows. kollie entered boot camp september 2015, still struggling joint muscle pains common survivors. "it bit hard me," says, "but kept pushing body adjusted. nothing easy fight it." lost lot people, saw standing alone ... must thing happen me? never ask god dominic kollie drill sergeants told ahead basic training couldn't give special treatment, said didn't want anyway. occasionally, though, given extra rations help body regain strength. once, training another recruit tried bully him, calling "second-hand human" ebola patient. "he kept saying provoke me, kept asking, ain't got strength, right? ain't got strength? pop," says, smiling memory punching rival mouth. military police officers forced two apologise one another, days later recruit approached privately. "he said, 'i realised hardships went through, felt joke.' hugged me," kollie recalls, saying two went become friends. completing basic training, kollie chose become medic, following passion medicine says developed time working doctors without borders. kollie graduated training module, called another survivor, helene henry, attend ceremony. henry patient doctors without borders unit counsellor. nine family members died there, including husband. says that, first, didn't want talk kollie, long hair stubble. "i afraid bushy hair. thinking, 'oh, ebola catching zokos all?'" ("zoko" term criminal "colloqua", liberia's hybrid english dialect.) kollie assured wouldn't hurt her, encouraging eat take medicine. discharged unit, henry, 32, wracked grief loss husband, mother, brothers sisters. early days, survivor support groups coalesced provide forum living share anguish they'd lost help one another cope post-ebola syndrome many faced, struggled debilitating depression. "it difficult point wanted kill myself," says. kollie invited attend graduation late 2015, decided take offer. ceremony, mentioned week invited spend her. dominic kollie helene henry, kakata [ashoka mukpo/al jazeera] now, henry pregnant kollie's child, two built house together kakata, city hour's drive north monrovia. kollie describes mother imposing figure pampered and, death, abruptly forced take full responsibility himself. "life difficult me," says. "but see now, feel pride young man taken bold stand life." times, though, still overcome sadness lost family. "i lost lot people, saw standing alone," says faraway look eyes. "why must thing happen me? never ask god why." henry embraced new life kollie, says still struggles memory husband. "sometimes, go room sing," says. "i tried feel passed continue life, still find difficult." "it changed sense things used do, i'm anymore. people used with, i'm anymore. so, it's like starting entire life over." garmai sumo body collector garmai sumo southwest philadelphia [ashoka mukpo/al jazeera] thousands miles away rain-soaked streets monrovia, garmai sumo sits couch brother's small home working-class neighbourhood southwest philadelphia. it's eve 31st birthday, sumo, slight-framed young woman broad smile penetrating gaze, sipping glass apple juice chats older brother, wisdom zio, 45, mental health worker moonlights reverend congregation west african immigrants live neighbourhood. one year, beginning june 2014, sumo worked "body team" - one red cross units tasked collecting samples corpses suspected died ebola. august 2014, liberian government decreed anyone died monrovia would cremated rather buried, teams given thankless, brutal job retrieving bodies homes. "sometimes, you'd go house whole family would dead. younger ones would there, crying, hungry. so, i'd give money go buy food them. helped me, positively, them, wouldn't die starvation," says. everyone left me. son, mom, god stayed garmai sumo sumo volunteered team early outbreak. working nurse ward tuberculosis patients walked office senior health official proclaimed intention join response. "he said, 'sit down, you're small. going kill yourself?'" remembers. "i said, 'no, fight.'" sumo woman team, tight-knit group found solace dark humour, bonding long months spent travelling across monrovia, gathering dead crematorium pyres. liberians, burying dead relatives sacrosanct ritual, concept cremation alien sacrilegious. sometimes, grieving relatives threw rocks sumo team, threatened machetes. august, picking dozens corpses every day, sleeping 10-wheel flatbed truck night couldn't make home. "bodies, bodies, bodies. every day," says. "not one, two, 10, 15. increasing every day. like, going on?" sumo talks memories crisis, facial muscles tighten purses lips. grips one hand lap, times voice wavers. "i felt much involved," zio says. "when first heard it, literally cried. felt she'd taken suicide mission." sumo's son jeremiah, eight years old, ostracised neighbourhood. residents would refuse allow touch shared water pump local well. tearing up, says friends refused socialise her. neighbours accused taking part plot steal parts bodies magic rituals. "everyone left me. son, mom god stayed me," says. crisis wound down, sumo returned job treating tuberculosis patients. told people happy life return normal, increasingly felt weighed she'd seen experienced. end 2016, sumo begun exhibit symptoms post-traumatic stress disorder, lapsing dark moods would last days. january year, brother arranged visit us, hoping find mental health treatment her. philadelphia, sumo still grappling psychological impact time spent working burial team. zio says he'll often find alone couch, curled ball crying. sumo isn't american citizen, hasn't able find affordable insurance see specialist. says worst moments come thinks orphaned children saw, crying alone homes parents lay dead, neighbours afraid take bring food. "when i'm experiencing mood, don't like go around anybody. it's like see vision, like movie watched imagine it," says softly, looking hands. sometimes, sumo says dreams she's back liberia, trapped house child sits next mother's body, begging water. flash, sumo transform back character journalists met crisis remember, flashing magnetic smile laughing deeply sly joke makes companions room. she's animated talks charity she'd like set liberia assist ebola orphans. says could go back time, would stop volunteering work team day. "i would grab arm," says. "because you're going sacrifice yourself, end day they'll tell aren't insured, didn't sign legal document. going there, reason?" mosoka fallah strategist mosoka fallah, monrovia [ashoka mukpo/al jazeera] one name anyone touched ebola liberia knows, it's mosoka fallah. beloved survivors, health workers, journalists alike, fallah gregarious, warm figure whose compassion intelligence earned accolades helping end liberia's outbreak months ahead sierra leone guinea. fallah invited speak across world liberian ebola response, says there's one constant every presentation makes. every time starts speak ebola, cries. fallah raised west point, infamous slum occupies peninsula centre downtown monrovia hosted dangerous moment liberia's outbreak - crisis threatened spill medical political. human suffering changed me. people say great job, say trying help people mosoka fallah harvard graduate, fallah hired french charity action contre le faim early summer 2014 carry contact tracing minor outbreak. "in july, ministry health representative asked me, 'how long control?' said, 'give two weeks,'" remembers, laughing. august, fallah working 100 hours week, supervising contact tracing across monrovia small team health workers. outbreak grew severity, noticed members team reluctant go infected communities, preferring arrange day-long meetings. "i said, 'gentlemen, ebola meeting. ebola field,'" says, "but demand guys put risk, too." west point, community leader tipped secret burials carried residents mistrustful government realised disease entered densely populated neighbourhood. "i called [a health ministry official] said worst happened. west point ebola," says. mid-august, government running places house ebola patients contacts. mob west point attacked holding facility set heart slum, releasing patients looting building. fallah explains residents angry patients brought outside west point, violating promises made government centre opened. liberian government responded quarantining neighbourhood stationing police army units entrances. decision ended disastrously, troops firing rioting crowd, killing teenage boy. fallah understood forceful strategy government taken west point backfiring, negotiated plan community leaders neighbourhood recruit local youth serve deputised case finders ministry health. "west point blessing disguise us," says. "it sent shockwave us didn't want militarise response anymore. good us, actually, idea community engagement ebola started midst situation." approach success, enabling cooperation residents west point health officials previously unable find hidden ebola cases. approach subsequently scaled across city. within months, case rate monrovia declined dramatically, outbreak began fizzle out. young, sharply dressed liberian health officials knock office door, sheepishly back away faced hard glare, fallah says humanitarian streak born liberia's civil war. 2003, period heavy fighting monrovia, worked doctors without borders, treating civilians wounded gunfire stray mortar rounds. "all life, i've around great, selfless people, think rubbed me," says, dabbing face tissue tears up. outbreak ended, fallah hired supervise study ebola survivors, helped force breakthrough development vaccine. across country, survivor know fallah, even cremation team speaks kindly him. "[the outbreak] changed me," says. "the human suffering changed me. people say great job, say trying help people. saw house burning wanted [put fire out]. thousands deserve honoured, struggled see outbreak end." ashoka mukpo reporter ashoka mukpo, second right, group survivors doctors without borders, monrovia, 2015 [photo courtesy ashoka mukpo] height liberia's ebola outbreak, captivated world and, brief moment, became powerful vector fears citizens wealthy nations project towards rest world, reinforcing view poorer countries dangerous, nasty places, assumed ignominious mantle western journalist come virus. calamitous event family, luck owning us passport meant brief, disorienting period public identity reduced cable news-friendly blurb "ebola survivor", could continue life without crushing weight grief poverty faced many share antibodies upon receiving certificates good health. still, months bout illness, trouble walking stairs, struggled joint pains, taught lesson intertwined minds bodies. someone used active pushing limits professionally, easy experience weakness physical toll ebola inflicts body. one point, interviewing foday gallah, made comment resonated deeply experience. "it felt like identity couldn't anything survivor. survivor," said. ways attention illness brought overwhelming disease itself, something try remember every time i've interviewed someone since then. ways attention illness brought overwhelming disease ashoka mukpo reporters work dangerous places, seems reassuring believe one entirely control safety rather subject fate luck. day, still don't know exposed virus. 48 hours diagnosed, table reporter worked conflict zones across world. asked stayed safe. thought moment, said, "you play odds". needless say, comment entered mind subsequent weeks. made choice enter dangerous situation experienced consequences decision. like people article, would almost certainly make decision again. many survivors i've met since illness much worse me. common - bonds us - none us choice move on. life simply continues unfold. 11,325 people west africa , privilege granted. gravestones remember burned pyres. time moves on, distant footnote ebola feel less less tangible liberians, saw close always remember. source: al jazeera author ashoka mukpo ashoka mukpo freelance writer videographer reports culture politics west africa. @ unkyoka health africa poverty & development liberia
jericho, occupied west bank - sprawling mosaics hisham's palace occupied west bank city jericho rare display single day october, celebrating start long-awaited renovation project. hisham's palace home one world's largest mosaic carpets, usually covered thick layer sand conservation purposes. year, help japanese international development agency, archaeologists palestinian ministry tourism antiquities developed plan restore maintain mosaics, date back first half 8th century. "hisham's palace one famous sites jericho, one important places palestine ," iyad hamdan, head jericho's ministry tourism, said 150-acre archaeological site, composed palace, audience hall, thermal bath fountain pavilion built umayyad period. "last year, 120,000 people visited hisham's palace. uncover mosaic, expect number visitors double triple." made 38 individual designs cover 827 square metres audience hall, mosaic carpet incredibly preserved example early islamic art. october 20, visitors chance explore many floral geometric designs covered again. restoration project, expected finish 2018, see mosaic uncovered permanently, topped elevated viewing walkway shelter. "this site us palestinians," hamdan said. "it world."
new york, united states - us president barack obama's inauguration shows featured likes beyonce bruce springsteen. country singer toby keith, perhaps top name donald trump's welcome bash, come quite stardust. but, sadly trump, kudos among pop stars biggest problem. president-elect take oath office january 20 amid widespread scepticism public ready-made enemies us spy agencies, business community even republican party. interactive: donald trump's cabinet picks - who's who? surface, trump's feisty use twitter bullish handling reporters recent press conference make look alpha male. bravado masks vulnerabilities seldom seen enter oval office. billionaire property magnate sworn steps us capitol friday, al jazeera spoke washington insiders headaches trump likely suffer first 100 days rolling plans make america great again. 1. public opinion trump lost popular vote november 8 2.9 million votes, winning election via superior tally electoral college. latest cbs news poll showed 32 percent respondents favourable view him, lower george w bush (44 percent) obama (60 percent) first sworn in. donald trump's election win triggered protests across us [jonathan ernst/reuters] according pew research center , americans want trump publish tax returns, worry using oval office line pockets think explained policy goals poorly. others fret impulsive behaviour, show recent twitter tirades actress meryl streep, john lewis, civil rights icon. trump's efforts reopen factories us soil popular mostly white rust-belt zones, appeal areas may ebb cuts healthcare plans poor. "those voted soon see policies impact negatively well," susan smith, muslim peace fellowship, think-tank, told al jazeera. 2. protesters everyone heading washington friday cheer 45th president's oath-taking. officials struggled find enough space protesters stage 25 rallies weekend. biggest women's march washington, draw 200,000 people decrying threats abortion laws , affordable healthcare equal pay. opinion: prospect us 'banana republic' groups spotlight everything ending war legalising marijuana. environmentalists irked trump's claim climate change chinese hoax . big rallies also take place los angeles, chicago major cities us globally. veteran protester paul kawika martin, anti-war group peace action, sceptical impact rallies, likely match scale iraq war 2003. "big street protests slowly going way dinosaurs," martin told al jazeera. donald trump's threats abortion laws angered many [kamil krzaczynski/reuters] others activists, khury petersen-smith, praise recent gains made black lives matter race justice movement standing rock oil pipeline protests . "we cannot put faith elected officials," petersen-smith told al jazeera. "we need harness grassroots power, keep immigration police out, turn college campuses sanctuaries work locally create pockets resistance." course, hundreds thousands others head capital root next commander-in-chief, including motorcycle cavalcade bikers trump attendees deploraball shindig. 3. republicans trump's fans always grassroots folk turned droves campaign rallies, well-heeled apparatchiks washington. latter would preferred jeb bush, marco rubio another established republican candidate lead party. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5285059737001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5285059737001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > us: political art artists making noise trump [2:09] pageloadedsuccessfully said, members broadly falling line behind trump pursuit nixing obamacare bullet points right's agenda. troubles persist. rubio john mccain, arizona senator, kicked fuss hearings trump's appointees. worry kremlin-backed hackers swinging election trump's admiration russian president vladimir putin . others fear trump's antipathy trade deals sniping european asian allies. pundits question whether members tire excesses pro-moscow outlook, point soon-to-be vice president mike pence potential successor. "trump gives far-right policies wants, he's also deeply problematic," jonathan cristol, fellow world policy institute think-tank, told al jazeera. "pence also deliver want, also typical, bland, mid-western, far-right-leaning republican." 4. democrats election effectively handed republicans dominance white house, congress supreme court. many democrats second-guessing choice hillary clinton run trump affable leftist bernie sanders, wondering whether party swing left. dozens democrat politicians boycott inauguration trump backlash begins. "the democrats went post-election shock, wear retreat, strategise, get re-energised return," said martin. "they popular vote november look make significant gains house representatives 2018 mid-term elections." 5. liberal mayors democrats lost big election, still hold sway new york, los angeles, san francisco us metropolises. hubs track records blocking federal government immigration crackdowns earned monikers "sanctuary cities" . trump, meanwhile, talked deporting "bad hombres" among us' 11 million undocumented migrants, creating muslim registries re-introducing "stop-and-frisk" policing tactic single blacks latinos. new york city mayor bill de blasio rejected trump's controversial immigration policies said refuse let president-elect 'tear families apart' [brendan mcdermid/reuters] new york mayor bill de blasio rejected policies said would refuse let trump "tear families apart". democrat mayors agreed, limit cooperation us department immigration customs enforcement deportation agencies. "if mayors stand up, like many have, block deportation forces entering cities, looking undocumented people, kicking doors breaking families," cathy schneider, urban politics scholar american university, told al jazeera. "our cities must become bastions protection citizens immigrants." washington retaliate freezing funds defiant mayors, outcome would unpredictable messy. "it's hard say would win, administration must pick battles carefully," added martin. 6. spymasters intelligence chiefs doubtless bad people irk. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5279600702001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5279600702001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story - conflicts interest drag president donald trump? [25:14] pageloadedsuccessfully trump said "smart person" need daily intelligence digests predecessors received. month, us spooks said russia tried sway election outcome trump's favour hacking means. trump rejected conclusion slammed bogus reports mass-casualty weapons led iraq war. links moscow faced renewed scrutiny unsubstantiated report russia compromising evidence trump. "we see leaks press ineptitude trump administration trump's ties russia time goes by," said cristol. washington bureaucrats likely confront trump directly, weapons, said martin. "they know system resist don't like. see happening intelligence community already; there's pushback come." 7. corporations far, businesses dancing trump's beat. general motors, wal-mart others announced plans job-creation re-locating factories us soil . line trump's plans create us jobs build home-grown manufacturing taxing imports. also fear wrath: trump's criticism drug firms over-charging medicines saw stock tumble. works now, executives may turn trump mooted trade war china go awry, disrupt global supply chains enable much us business ultimately hurt us workers. "if trump messes world economy, there'll lots rich, powerful corporations legions lobbyists resist him," said martin. follow james reinl twitter: @jamesreinl source: al jazeera news author james reinl james reinl journalist world affairs analyst reported 30 countries awards covering haiti’s earthquake, sri lanka’s civil war human rights abuses iran. donald trump united states us elections 2016 politics us & canada
pro-brexit demonstrators protest outside houses parliament, london, november 23 [jack taylor/getty images] whether britain withdraw economic political union europe question put british people referendum 2016. historic move, britain voted "leave", opting quit european union end 43-year relationship continent. decision remained close call right last moment, dividing nation middle 52 percent britons choosing leave . culmination four months bitter campaigning exposed deep rifts british society, continent too. " brexit first significant victory foreign policy radical right … clearly inspired marine le pen, geert wilders others," explains cas mudde, author ideology extreme right. interactive: making breaking europe pageloadedsuccessfully results announced, prime minister david cameron submitted resignation, heeding calls rivals position untenable failed convince britons remain union europe. "i everything prime minister steady ship [the] coming months, think would right captain ship," cameron said . capital, london, voted stay part eu; however, parts rest southern england, along wales, voted leave. north, cities voted remain rural areas wanted out. across country, young voted overwhelmingly remain, over-65s voted break away. british prime minister david cameron resigns steps 10 downing street june 24, 2016 london, england. [dan kitwood/getty images] 'britain first' week referendum take place, jo cox , 41-year-old british member parliament pro-eu campaigner, stabbed death outside library regularly met constituents home village birstall, northern england. fatal knife gun attack executor heard shouting: "britain first, britain." political life, cox campaigned diversity; victims syrian conflict; child refugees; palestinians affected blockade gaza strip; rights welfare victims islamophobia. also worked anti-slavery charity freedom fund oxfam. opinion: brexit - wake-up call eu, listen? first assassination mp uk 25 years. "the perpetrator attack argued white race quickly becoming extinct. common idea runs european far-right," explains matthew goodwin, professor politics international relations university kent. flowers surround picture jo cox vigil parliament square june 16 [dan kitwood/getty images] anti-establishment xenophobia britain's vote exit eu aided populist, anti-establishment xenophobia coursing continent. year, angela merkel's christian democrats beaten third place far-right afd party local elections, germany endured year violent attacks spotlighted refugee policy. france's front national leader marine le pen made significant gains presidential election polls; austria came close electing far-right head state italy rejected constitutional reforms radical enough, prompting resignation centrist leader. read more: uk- hate crime 'at record levels' brexit vote according rami peit , research associate political economy foreign policy florida international university, "if le pen wins elections, would clearly mean end eu know it, frexit vote would leave germany major global economic political actor." populist, anti-immigration parties rise high unemployment austerity, arrival record numbers refugees, violent attacks deepen voter disillusionment traditional parties. "these dangerous moments europe," says dan stone, author goodbye that: story europe since 1945. "we see important elections coming germany france wake brexit. see rise so-called populist movements, across europe us elsewhere." stone adds: "the catastrophe world war ii brought integration europe imperfect process it's abandoned altogether, consequences be?" source: al jazeera news politics brexit
plenary session european parliament vote decide whether lift eu parliamentary immunity french far-right presidential candidate marine le pen [yves herman/reuters] europe throes far-right populist resurgence, threatening mainstream politics idea european integration. nationalism playing key part elections across continent, europe waits see far far right come, far european union left go. "to understand europe today terms european integration phenomena we're seeing contemporary period, go back europe longer exists, post-world war ii europe," says alina polyakova, director research europe eurasia atlantic council. interactive: making breaking europe 1945, end world war ii , continent divided nationalism devastated war. also ready new beginning. meeting crimean resort yalta, us president franklin roosevelt, british prime minister winston churchill soviet premier joseph stalin marked joint plan liberated europe. set place spheres influence soviet western interests, would lead creation east west germany . "europe left completely economically dilapidated, struggling, time, know, think starting point call european union, many ways marshall plan," polyakova says. 1948 marshall plan distributed $13bn us aid across ravaged western europe. sanctioned president harry s. truman led secretary state, george marshall, plan heart aim united europe. "they want see united europe think attract eastern satellite states away russians. essentially, it's making western europe america's image selling america europeans. cultural imperialism," explains richard aldrich, professor international security university warwick. ideological struggle may 1950, two years marshall plan put effect, france's foreign minister robert schuman laid bare vision european unity. "europe made once, according single plan. built concrete achievements first create de facto solidarity," schuman declared. federal europe would consolidate north atlantic treaty organisation, nato , set do: keep soviet power check. 1955, weeks west germany entered nato, soviet union formalised warsaw pact - drawing nations central eastern europe common counter-purpose: challenging western domination. europe centre ideological struggle. "the european continent becomes battleground anglo-american influence that's trying uphold expand liberal democracy, versus soviet communism, really tied anti-fascism," matthew goodwin, professor royal institute international affairs, explains. late 1950s, division europe two ideological blocs political, economic cultural reality. treaty rome transformed six nations european coal steel community european economic community. august 1961, "iron curtain" symbolically divided europe two made real building berlin wall. eastern europe closing west. time, west opening rest world. boom europe experiencing unprecedented boom, keeping britain increasingly wealthy club. european economic community absorbing foreign workers, initially southern europe, late 1950s 1960s countries turkey morocco, and, case britain , commonwealth. beginning 1973, nearly three decades looking outside, britain, along ireland denmark , finally joined european economic community. eec grown nine member states. later year, hike price crude oil multinational oil cartel opec sparked economic crisis part wider downturn european fortunes. would leave so-called "guest workers" work thought going back come from. "it clear guest workers weren't going home, increasingly moved kind factory-owned apartments mostly white working-class areas, became issue become clear stay, going part society," explains cas mudde, author ideology extreme right. foreign guest workers become visible local fixtures. france, shift stirred anti-immigrant reaction brought disparate sections far right leadership one man, jean-marie le pen. "i feeling france losing territory," told al jazeera exclusive interview. "a nd consequence failures would know hardships .... moment conducted political campaign 'resurgence', will." self-proclaimed "resurgence" far-right sentiment wouldn't confined french soil. far right looked take advantage anti-immigrant sentiment economic uncertainty, ideas would achieve victory, leave parties loss. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4956735706001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_4956735706001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch more: brexit concerns eu migrant workers [25:00] populism far-right parties emerging political reality, european economic community enlarging include spain , portugal greece . 1980s drew close increasing western european unity. east would experience seismic contraction. president mikhail gorbachev's perestroika reforms failed save soviet union collapse. west ideological war, fall berlin wall would symbolise end 20th century's "grand narrative". end days communism brought uncertainty opportunity europe. still coming terms war yugoslavia seen rise ethno-nationalism disintegration balkan state, leaving two million refugees wake, western europe pressed ahead ambitious plan greater integration. would signed effect 1992 dutch city maastricht. well paving way common currency - euro - maastricht treaty made 12 member states beholden shared economic, social security policies. political economic strings europe pulled eu headquarters brussels. gap governance governed getting ever greater. 1999, european common currency - euro - finally launched. everyone happy this. true finns finland , sweden democrats danish people's party all, degree, vehicles anti-eu sentiment, france's front national refocused nationalist manifesto supra-national union, britain, uk independence party would begin campaign get britain europe. 2008, financial meltdown, begun credit crisis us, would catalyst political social unrest across europe would give far right chance rush mainstream feared tread. greece, simmering financial crisis boiled street violence. greek prime minister, george papandreou, committed 110bn euro, ($119bn) bailout troika european commission, european central bank international monetary fund . return, greece would required make drastic cuts public spending, reduce budget deficit liberalise markets. "i take difficult measures, knew many unjust otherwise country would fallen brink, would gone bankrupt," says george papandreou, former greek prime minister. read more: far-right mp storms athens school refugee classes 2012 elections greece saw golden dawn, violent, openly fascist party, claim 18 seats greek parliament. coalition government traditional left centre-right parties held power athens, soon set work implementing imposed austerity. france , marine le pen, daughter jean-marie, taken leader front national, shifting emphasis centre-ground already shifted right. 2016, british people voted leave european union. victory part fuelled nationalism, uk independence party leading charge. cas mudde says: "brexit first significant victory foreign policy radical right." project unite europe, began wake devastating war, seems challenged populist stirrings nations sought bring together. source: al jazeera news politics european union
black lives matters protesters end march us [ap] something's happening united states. see protests streets, hear speeches leaders. feel fearful hearts watch news. … heat, here. something brewing. brewing. course, heat nothing new. great melting pot stove long time, boiled before. slavery boiled us, turned heat freedom. jim crow boiled us, turned heat equal rights law. burner always on. melting pot always feels heat, though might turn bit time time, there's still heat, heat. melting pot boiling. read more: there's candidate like donald trump nowhere evident current presidential campaign, rhetoric borders white-hot racism. entertainer donald trump headlines this. using racist statements outright lies , he's run gamut openly mocking blacks, hispanics, people disabilities - promoting nazi-era protocols identify muslims . bigoted rhetoric, coupled actual admission doesn't bother checking facts , combine give us chance president intellectual capacity emotional control toddler temper tantrum. make mistake, trump real contender throne - something terrifying. trump alone. grand old party (gop) seething cauldron racism xenophobia. saw syrian refugee crisis, began four years ago none paying attention, became political platform. trump's neo-nazi muslim id cards shocking, ted cruz suggested restrict entry allow christians in, rubio essentially called christian version sharia law . even ben carson compared syrian refugees rabid dogs . send us tired, hungry, white christian. america, even black man easily use racism political gain. none limited presidential race. republican rhode island state senator elaine morgan thinks muslim refugees live segregated camps half us governors took stance publicly refusing syrian refugees - despite fact say matter refugee immigration regulated federal law. even roanoke - virginia's mayor david bowers thinks look japanese internment camps world war ii example housing refugees . darkest hour become inspiration. opinion: fear resistance syrian refugees us proudly racist rhetoric local national leaders suggests american melting pot boiling heat hasn't felt since mid-1800s 1960s. black lives matter protesters proclaim: "this ain't mama's civil rights movement," white supremacist groups rally feels like increased support political leaders. latino communities exercise increased political power even supreme court threatens diminish latino vote favour voting strength white populations. republican presidential candidate donald trump speaks campaign rally manassas, virginia, december 2 [gary cameron/reuters] us boiling, politicians know it, especially trump. happy make money muslims, pals around dubai calling friends, he'll stand stump saying ban muslims country knows racist language win votes. meanwhile, two-term democratic president, history judge, there's little democrats win. evidence, see ineffectual campaigns clinton sanders - seem dedicated little checking "at least tried" box. gop say want majority voting base us seems agree racist ideology. fact, racism biggest card republican party game, it's trump card. watch: black lives matter us? grim scenario sounds, actually gives hope. seems racism rise. today, black community mobilised way seen since - even - civil rights movement. black voters vocal streets social media, increasingly demanding democrats " earn damn vote lose ". gone days assured black vote supporting policies destroy black communities. black hispanic people increasingly taking roles government white population numbers dwindling. even acceptance white norms unabashedly fought entertainers nicki minaj kanye west. world changing, white supremacy threat. i'm talking skinheads, i'm talking implicit white supremacy allows media label white mass murders "quiet" labelling innocent black murder victims "the son drug users". i'm talking white supremacy created war drugs disproportionately convicts black hispanic people drug use even though white people likely use, abuse, deal drugs. melting pot always worked it's cream base extra ingredients. within generation, white people minority . many people afraid - interestingly, often would argue racial inequality imagined issue . that's so, would white minority problem? becoming minority wouldn't scary honestly believed minorities treated equity. don't believe that, weapons drawn battle white supremacy's reign. think violence rhetoric people realise party's - tomorrow, still work do, better days coming. there's manic kind violence today's white supremacy - whether it's chicago police department, fox media, dylann roof. white supremacy cornered rat sees mortality wants cause much damage possible way grave. author: identity lie? mania countered confident strength minority communities. black women standing topless streets fists air. hispanic communities unapologetically flexing political power . even muslims - taking racist xenophobia chin - refusing feel guilty asking everyday christians don't feel need apologise christian 'terrorists'. i'm heartened increasing volume voices white people, many formerly silent, saying, "we better this." white supremacy run, fight increasingly violent displays it's dying. trump rest gop contenders know want capitalise it. stoking fear changing world advantage. don't care voter base. don't care next generation, even really one. care winning election, they're willing crank heat burn us it. john metta worked cook, groundskeeper, store clerk, park ranger, navy submariner, army wartime medic, hydrologist, school teacher, software developer, mathematical modeller, underwater archaeologist. jobs, all, writing. always writing. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author john metta john metta writer racial issues us. @ johnmetta politics united states donald trump
austrian far-right freedom party supporters wave flags final election rally vienna april 22 [reuters] past weeks demonstrated many european voters moving towards far-right political spectrum continent middle nationalistic wave. hardline extreme right party entered parliament cyprus while, astonishingly, norbert hofer, presidential candidate austria's freedom party, although narrowly defeated , gained incredible 49.7 percent votes. immediately prompted france's national front - allied party europe nations freedom group european union parliament - release enthusiastic statement. electoral performance was, view, promising "for successes patriotic movements", suggesting "the return national sovereignty matter time". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4908487361001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4908487361001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > austria election highlights anti-immigrant mood pageloadedsuccessfully borrowing far-right discourse worryingly enough, focus parties - especially issues eu, borders, immigrants, refugees - , various degrees frequency, borrowed mainstream moderate political forces. is, surprisingly, leading sort legitimisation modern-day, right-wing nationalists. austria's politics clear example. government implemented strict stance refugees yet none candidates main parties reached second ballot, forcing prime minister resign. freedom party leading polls 2018 legislative elections, new centre-left chancellor, christian kern, fully ruled cooperating far-right future. resentments among regional power might rise again, privileges based ethnic origins - alleged purity. years ago, anti-fascism still feature european politics, governing "heir" fascism would almost unimaginable. mean europe's "right mainstream right" become acceptable political actor cutting ties shady past? causing significant confusion media reports among politicians, willing forge alliances rising far-right forces. "but now-defeated presidential hopeful, norbert hofer, freedom party actually 'far-right'?", bbc news editorial asks . another, suggested " dissatisfaction, cynicism outright rejection traditional political parties [as well business banking elites] ... this, far-right fervour, arguably driving voters stage ballot-box protests seek alternative political homes - delight europe's populist parties." many faces fascism unfortunately, fact mainstream parties employ almost xenophobic language gain votes necessarily mean democratic liberal "normalisation" far-right ideology. italian german interwar fascisms relevant electoral moments, anti-semitism taboo number european countries time. aware led to. around decade ago, columbia university historian robert paxton rightly pointed "a fascism future - emergency response still unimagined crisis - need resemble classical fascism perfectly outward signs symbols ... enemy would necessarily jews. authentically popular fascism america would pious, anti-black, and, since september 11, 2001, anti-islamic well; western europe would secular and, days, likely anti-islamic anti-semitic; russia eastern europe would religious, anti-semitic, slavophile, anti- western. new fascisms would probably prefer mainstream patriotic dress place time." sound familiar across atlantic? opinion: right-wing nationalism scapegoating migrants moreover, use labels "populist right" really helping. populism ideology. widespread use term majority commentators distracts true nature far-right parties. really sure movements moderated agenda? fact, promote narrow concept community, excludes "different" foreigners. also sense decline threat widely exploited interwar fascism, extreme-right parties, - 1945 - resisted immigration grounds defending so-called "european civilisation". future europe? future european societies could, however, follow specific lines: "our european cultures, values freedom attack. threatened crushing dictatorial powers european union. threatened mass immigration, open borders single european currency," marcel de graaff , co-president europe nations freedom group european parliament, declared. another fellow party, belgian vlaams belang , calls opposition multiculturalism. "defends interests dutch-speaking people wherever necessary", would "dissolve belgium establish independent flemish state. state ... include brussels", current capital eu institutions. opinion: time protect democracy tolerance europe austrian freedom party , similar line, "supports interests german native speakers territories former habsburg monarchy" "right self-determination" german-speaking italian bordering region south tyrol. hand, marine le pen, president french national front, promotes principle " national priority " french citizens many areas, welfare jobs public sector. also wants renegotiate european treaties establish " pan-european union " including russia . end inward-looking changes, free movement europeans across europe, replaced reconsolidation sovereignty nation states. resentments among regional powers might rise again, privileges based ethnic origins - alleged purity. sum, europe probably look one follows "moderate" far-right policies. dream building united states europe become obsolete memory past. old continent surely less similar post-national one guaranteed peace - relative - prosperity disaster world war ii. andrea mammone historian modern europe royal holloway, university london. author "transnational neofascism france italy". currently writing book recent nationalist turn europe. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author andrea mammone andrea mammone historian modern contemporary europe royal holloway, university london. @ andrea_mammone politics europe france racism
truth is, trump us world service holding giant mirror collective soul, writes levine [reuters] hinting presidential assassinations , asking russians hack united states government picking fights "gold star" parents certainly best ways donald trump build trust presidential brand. becoming thankfully clear american public trump candidate business possessing even shred political power, trump political provocateur forcing us confront inconvenient truths hypocrisies underlying us foreign policy, could play valuable role upending outdated even absurd foreign policy status quo. recent piece foreign policy website, stephen walt, professor harvard university's john f kennedy school government, argued trump's focus advancing us interests, stopping free-riding countries, scepticism nation-building efforts could encouraged much-needed foreign policy debate scope limits american power. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5077758762001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5077758762001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > trump fire veiled threat clinton pageloadedsuccessfully speaking truth directly related three arguments trump's criticisms nato, heart argument us shouldn't continue offer unqualified pledges defend allies aren't "paying fair share" nato budget. went even further, questioning alliance's continued raison d'etre. idea us meeting treaty obligations alliance sparked almost much outrage - policy c ircles far - trump's feud khan family. response, president barack obama democratic national convention speech declared "a merica's promises come price tag. meet commitments." frontline nato allies poland baltic states would certainly suffer us withdrew commitment defend russian attack. doesn't change reality us subsidising european nato allies decades even though cold war strategic logic surrounding zero-sum contest expansionist soviet union longer exists. truth is, trump us world service holding giant mirror collective soul, forcing us confront ugliness, irrationalities hypocrisies underlying many policies think sensible, least inevitable. moreover, alliance's increasingly offensive posture vis-a-vis russia, helps justify us' continuing massively disproportionate military spending, considered analysts central reason russia's increasingly bellicose actions. trump's comments crimea , ukraine, russian president vladimir putin us-russian relations also far closer truth many would like admit. trump's claim george stephanopoulos russia "is going go ukraine" obviously mistaken, given invasion annexation crimea. opinion: us elections - time jokes willingness consider recognising russia's annexation crimea generated even condemnation. reality us allies already recognised russia's fait accompli name. that, us powers sordid history acquiescing conquest effective annexation territory, morocco israel. trump done say loud everyone already knows. made us mess? similarly, criticise trump's bromance putin, given latter's brutal authoritarian policies towards people support bashar al-assad regime. putin's actions little different host western allies client states, honduras turkey, saudi arabia uzbekistan, egypt much africa. protester outfit resembling uniform ku klux klan stands outside site rally trump february 8 [epa] said trump's apparent praise libya's former president muammar gaddafi iraq's saddam hussein - men "our sons bitches", phrase first used allegedly franklin roosevelt describe nicaraguan dictator anastasio somoza - outlived usefulness disposed highly profitable strategically disastrous wars. simply put, mandarins guarding gates us foreign policy don't like trump cosying putin, whole edifice us "realpolitik" needs done away with, favour set principles actually supports human rights democracy everywhere. regard, worth pointing that, however ugly trump's rhetoric, former secretary state hillary clinton whose hands stained blood, his. opinion: donald trump could win - sense, trump's response warning 50 senior republican-appointed diplomats would " reckless " president history - "these people made us mess" - hard dispute. similarly, labelling obama "most valuable player" islamic state iraq levant (isil, also known isis) - let alone creator - classic trump hyperbole, undeniable president's drone policies, never mind massive arms sales support israel, saudi arabia many brutal oppressive regimes, significantly help terror group's recruiting efforts. making america great perhaps panic-inducing report comes cnbc host joe scarborough, revealed trump repeatedly asked least one foreign policy expert brought advise us can't use nuclear weapons since it's gone trouble build them. might sound like preposterous question, realise us set spend upwards $1 trillion next 30 years - that's $1,000,000,000,000 - "modernise" nuclear weapons programme. bit budgetary insanity - could literally lift world's poor poverty - proposed republicans, obama administration ( pdf ). let's get real: think us spends trillion dollars weapons system plans scenarios use? truth is, trump us world service holding giant mirror collective soul, forcing us confront ugliness, irrationalities hypocrisies underlying many policies think sensible, least inevitable. don't vote trump even like appreciate importance political, economic strategic realities exposed us' greatest reality tv star. keep mirror raised returns apprentice, trump indeed made america better country stormed political arena. mark levine professor middle eastern history university california, irvine, distinguished visiting professor lund university. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author mark levine mark levine professor middle eastern history university california. @ culturejamming us elections 2016 donald trump politics united states
jordanian soldiers attend funeral one intelligence officers killed monday's attack [muhammad hamed/reuters] new details emerged tuesday suspect accused deadly shooting jordanian intelligence agents near palestinian refugee camp al-baqa'a outside jordan's capital, amman. suspect - identified local media mahmoud masharfeh - arrested shooting monday night inside mosque el-sleihi town el-basha district. that's 5km intelligence department offices allegedly committed killings earlier day. arrest report masharfeh captured jordanian police captain, faisal fozan al-odwan, el-sleihi. al jazeera obtained copy hand-written police report, described events led arrest: video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4879249298001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4879249298001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > jordan takes refugees aleppo onslaught pageloadedsuccessfully " around 9pm monday, went local mosque along father, brothers cousins evening prayers. noticed worshippers gathered around man, asking from. police officer, went questioned told el-basha area. proceeded pray imam called prayer. finished main prayer, man proceeded pray sunna noticed something protruding waist. suspecting weapon, immediately arrested demanded search him. resisted arrest refused searched. however, managed pull dagger hidden behind back. scuffle fell ground pulled gun pants fired worshippers lying ground. two bullets hit police corporal ahmad al-odwan, cousin. managed take gun hand tied anti-terrorism units arrived arrested him. seized 7mm pistol, 20 live rounds two spent shells." wounded policeman odwan brought hospital critical condition, police captain said. official statement arrest released publication time. jordanian soldiers relatives one intelligence officers killed carry body funeral [muhammad hamed/reuters] wanted attempts join isil masharfeh baqa'a camp little known motive. born 1994. masharfeh spent two-and-half years jordanian jail attempting enter gaza join "jihad" hamas joining local jihadist group 2012, source spent time prison told al jazeera condition anonymity protect safety. source said ever since got jail 2014, masharfeh trying join islamic state iraq levant (isil, also known isis) syria, initially couldn't. known whether masharfeh able join isil syria received combat training there. wanted questioning jordanian intelligence ever since. arrest made killing jordan intelligence agents masharfeh reportedly nephew mustafa yaghi, well-known local politician member parliament. yaghi denounced incident statement published facebook page monday calling "terrorist act". "on behalf people al-baqa'a refugee camp district el-basha, condemn heinous crime agents intelligence department," statement said. "even perpetrator … arrested last night mentioned social media nephew, change position forms terrorism." member parliament mohamad hejuj told al jazeera: "extremism cancer could found baqa'a, also many places. mission stop keep countries safe." follow ali younes twitter: @ali_reports video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4929660674001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_4929660674001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > jordan intelligence agents killed attack near amman pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera author ali younes @ ali_reports jordan middle east
jordanian writer nahed hattar [al jazeera] arrest warrant issued jordanian writer allegedly shared cartoon social media deemed highly offensive muslims. warrant writer nahed hattar issued friday failed appear questioning cartoon posted facebook page. known produced cartoon, shows fighter islamic state iraq levant (isil, also known isis) sitting next two women asking god bring drink. 'did mean offend' backlash hattar immediate jordanian social media users lambasting writer sharing cartoon accusing anti-islam purposely causing offence jordanian muslims. social media users also called government question arrest hattar, attacked christian secularist. attempting explain motive sharing cartoon, hattar said intend cause offence muslims wanted cartoon "expose" isil muslim brotherhood. "i mean offend believers. instead, trying expose terrorist daesh [the rabic acronym isil] militants muslim brotherhood envision god heaven," hattar said one explanation. second explanation, hattar said "as non-believer" respected "the believers understand satire behind cartoon". however, hattar's comment jordan's muslim brotherhood, organisation founded 1945 political religious group whose members served country's parliament government, could considered libellous, crime jordanian law. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4253626206001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4253626206001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > jordan concerned growing support isil pageloadedsuccessfully jordan's muslim brotherhood issued statement response hattar's comments called government take strong measures publish seditious material undermined national unity. isil considered foreign illegal group jordanian law, expressing form support illegal. 'a big mistake' "this whole controversy politically motivated hattar opponents took advantage issue take revenge controversial often offensive political stances," jordanian writer fahad al khitan said. khitan described hattar "fool" "making big mistake". hattar outspoken supporter syrian president bashar al-assad described oppose assad regime "terrorists" "terrorist sympathisers". hattar also outspoken advocate depriving jordanians palestinian origin legal civil rights jordan. called exclusive, east-bank jordanian identity without palestinian component. reem al jazi, well-known jordanian civic activist, said hattar caused offence "everyone, muslims. "hattar racist bigoted individual," jazi said, opposed attacking writer secularist christian. "hattar claiming write christian perspective, self-proclaimed 'non-believer'," said. "if face legal consequences actions, accusing muslim brotherhood organisation terrorism, libel jordanian law, sharing cartoon," added. follow ali younes twitter: @ali_reports source: al jazeera jordan middle east
ali bin smaikh also said qataris heading hajj pilgrimage also facing obstacles [afp] doha, qatar - head qatar's national human rights committee (nhrc) says efforts ease humanitarian impact blockade qatari citizens rebuffed human-rights groups neighbouring arab gulf states. ali bin smaikh al-marri, nhrc chairman, disclosed doha wednesday sent letters counterparts saudi arabia , uae bahrain asking appeal governments spare gulf citizens humanitarian, social economic consequences dispute. "we either got response attacked colleagues working human-rights issues blockading nations," said. read more: saudi-led blockade qatar 'breaking families' said human-rights sections arab league, organisation islamic cooperation, arab parliament gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) ignored plea. founded 2002, nhrc organisation gcc officially recognised government internationally. gcc nations ngos dealing human rights issues. ali bin smaikh also said saudi government putting obstacles qatari citizens wished perform annual hajj pilgrimage year despite statement contrary. "the saudi government inciting citizens qataris. government saudi arabia clear open stance regards permitting qataris perform hajj mecca year without hindrance," said. demand compensation saudi arabia, bahrain , uae egypt, along several countries, severed ties qatar last june, claiming doha funding banned armed groups. qatar strongly rejects charges. ali bin smaikh also outlined international efforts explain humanitarian impact blockade various un, european american parliamentarian human rights groups. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5491280641001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5491280641001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > fishermen qatar affected gulf rift pageloadedsuccessfully "there great interest positive responses western capitals visited," said. said organisations would taking legal action blockading countries behalf citizens filed official complaints seeking financial economic redress. nhrc estimated 8,254 saudi, 784 emirati, 2,349 bahraini citizens lived qatar. forced leave jobs face punishment legal consequences governments, said. qatar asked saudi, emirati bahraini citizens leave doha, three countries demanded qatari nationals leave announced series punishing measures. ali bin smaikh, however, urged qatari government work securing adequate compensation blockading countries qatari citizens paid high social economic cost. follow ali younes twitter @ali_reports source: al jazeera human rights qatar middle east
source: al jazeera authors ted regencia yarno ritzen interactive producer @ yarnoritzen human rights refugees syrian refugees migrants somalia
delhi, india - chai, tea, national obsession india pakistan , trending last week, thanks blue-eyed chai wala, tea seller. photographs arshad khan islamabad pakistan went viral, tea sellers became hot brew sell. looks though khan, since landed modelling contracts, bidding goodbye profession. many tea sellers fortunate. india, chai sold street little five 10 indian rupees ($0.075 $0.150), tea sellers usually start day 5am, catering daily wage labourers rickshaw pullers making way work. indian capital, delhi, migrated smaller cities villages dreams making decent living. spend days, whether heat summer cold winter, stalls. may sell hundreds cups day, ingredients - black tea, milk, ginger cardamom - expensive tea sellers live poverty. shared stories al jazeera's showkat shafi.
ramallah, occupied west bank - majority palestinians, concept "return" intrinsically linked right return millions palestinian refugees diaspora. approximately eight million palestinians "forcibly displaced persons", according badil resource centre, palestinian ngo. however, national international levels remains lack political tangible action towards redressing issue. amid grim reality, third edition qalandiya international contemporary arts biennial taken place across historic palestine internationally. although qalandiya international explores concepts "return" various palestinian international contexts - particularly significant amid global refugee crisis - biennial's curatorial statement begins question: "can word carry cure ailments, past present, tragedy? us palestinians, return become core antithesis nakba ."
odrintsi, bulgaria - bulgaria , poorest country european union , abandoned villages derelict houses common sight. that's also used odrintsi, small village border greece . fact, one point two residents: 85-year-old pensioner ruska dimitrova vlado, shepherd looks two dozen animals. came germans. fourteen adults five children. bought eight derelict houses fixed up. leased 100 hectares land, farmed. bought animals. horses, donkeys, sheep, goats, dogs, cats, hens, geese. began living way people centuries ago. without electricity. without motorised machinery. without electronic gadgets, mobile phones internet . daily routine consists meditation, work, countless discussions meaning life. today, two years arrival, community leads self-sufficient existence virtually contact outside world. "we don't want anything western world exploitation earth's resources. want touch nature again," explains jurgen hummes, leader group. jurgen, 59, man white hair, long beard amulet around neck, describes healer shaman. claims direct contact "spiritual world". "it shows way," says. followers believe him. time other, healed illnesses help meditation medicinal herbs, say. following years. initially, 11 years ago, southern germany, togo west africa, lived eight years, finally, 2015, southeastern bulgaria. "living here, world little happens, allows us contemplate nature focus spiritual existence," says jurgen. "that, all, something desire."
slums kenya often private toilets, boosting spread disease risk rape [laila ali/al jazeera] nairobi, kenya - ever attended music festival, chances familiar dreaded panic looking nearest bathroom nature calls. imagine panic, time inside home. however, instead walking corridor bathroom, walk blocks, perhaps dark, nearest toilet - hole ground, reeking stale urine sometimes full waste, shared dozen families. reality many slum dwellers kenya. unsurprisingly, many residents don't bother walk. privacy expediency, opt relieve using plastic bags throw far away possible homes: phenomenon known "flying toilets". landlords reluctant build toilets keep fast-expanding informal settlements, space takes build toilet could build room earn money, said stella kitonga, deputy project manager peepoople , ngo operates nairobi slums. concerned community hygiene potential "flying toilets" spread diseases, peepoople come novel approach tackle problem silanga, village kibera, kenya's biggest slum: self-sanitising, biodegradable bag known "peepoo" people use homes. incredibly, peepoos meet world health organisation's requirement hygiene disease prevention, contain five grams urea, breaks waste ammonia carbonate. bags inner outer layer. inner layer wide tube keep hands clean holding closing. outer layer pulls inner layer ties knot prevent flies small animals coming contact it. odour contained 24 hours. women living slums, added element security using peepoo safety homes. "a number rape cases reported women go outside home look sanitation facilities. come understand since peepoo introduced, reduction rape crime silanga village," says mika mitoko, project manager peepoople. job opportunity bags, subsidised donors, sold 3 kenyan shillings ($0.03) each. bags' small size means also carried used elsewhere. users opt keep waste use garden fertiliser, bags dropped collection point reimbursement 1 shilling ($0.01) per bag. "i didn't regular job peepoos introduced, saw opportunity people want drop bags ." - mama lucy, entrepreneur pageloadedsuccessfully reimbursement intended discourage people dumping bags, unintended effect creating jobs. reluctant carry waste drop designated place, collection service exists. mama lucy, young mother three, makes living collecting used peepoo bags network neighbours friends. pockets reimbursement fees. "i didn't regular job peepoos introduced, saw opportunity people want drop bags themselves," said, handing bucket bags drop-off point. "now, two rounds day pick peepoos people's houses. good week earn thousand shillings ($11)." originally pilot project introduced 2010, peepoo official launch stage, ready implemented parts kibera. however, business tackling slum waste limited ngos. private sector also getting involved turning profit. sanergy , company founded mit business school graduates whose name combines words "santiation" "energy", aims build dense network low-cost sanitation centres named fresh life, distribute franchising local entrepreneurs run small businesses. sanergy collects waste toilets converts useful products biogas organic fertiliser, sold number co-operatives. partnered kiva , microfinancing organisation provides small loans entrepreneurs wish purchase fresh life toilet. according sanergy co-founder david auerback, business model simple enough: research showed need willingness pay "three five kenyan shillings ($0.03-0.05) use sanitation facilities - came price". fresh life facility managers boost profit selling additional products toilet paper sanitary pads. auerback added business profitable many entrepreneurs running fresh life toilets doubling purchasing another - proof, says, dealing slum waste "viable business". follow laila ali twitter: @lailainnairobi source: al jazeera author laila ali kenya
renderpagesvideo('5226488772001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); athens, greece - outside, city plaza hotel might look like much, another shabby building greek capital athens, neglected years economic crisis. step inside doors find unique space hundreds people world: refugees. plan never stay greece. hopes reaching northern europe. but, "balkan route" closed march 2016, made dangerous trip rubber dinghies turkey nowhere else go. that's activists athens intervened occupied spaces city plaza, hotel abandoned years earlier, prevent weary travellers sleeping overcrowded camps or, even worse, streets athens, many could find shelter forced do. pictures: first school bell rings refugee children greece since occupied, city plaza become home 400 refugees migrants syria, afghanistan, iraq, nigeria, pakistan, iran elsewhere. unlike refugee accommodations europe, city plaza affords guests level dignity wouldn't find elsewhere. people private rooms bathrooms. it's unusual space - asylum centres hierarchical segregated based nationality, city plaza functions collectively, refugees activists cooking, cleaning, living making decisions together. diverse space, things easily get lost translation. people find way communicate, can't people rabea, refugee damascus, make sure greek international activists communicate refugees migrants living city plaza. filmmaker - matthew cassel ( @ matthewcassel ) editors - matthew cassel, andrew phillips ( https://www.instagram.com/alphaphille/ ) assistant producer - ziad ramley ( @ziadramley ) executive producer - yasir khan ( @khanundrum ) [al jazeera/matthew cassel] [al jazeera/matthew cassel] [al jazeera/matthew cassel] source: al jazeera author matthew cassel shorts refugees europe greece
filmmakers, jenna belhumeur elena boffetta: last year, met otis johnson new york city shelter ex-convicts. everyone trying get feet back ground. otis got prison serving 44-year sentence. last time seen family may 1975. shared otis's first story reintroduced modern world, viewers amazed unfamiliar everything him. iphones, times square, jars pre-mixed peanut butter jelly ... everything new starkly different. interactive: life 44 years prison. story otis johnson story clearly resonated people. 12 million people watched otis' story youtube, wanted show happened next. went asbury park, new jersey, otis try find them. reconnecting family something said always interested doing, hadn't got round yet. all, still learning navigate city. small box kept old, tattered photos family members, basically information them. "the address really asbury park," otis told us. took train asbury park knowing much. otis' memory. arrived train station began roaming streets, small things old home slowly came back him: extended family members, friends, shops. wanted find aunt, dottie moore, family members. said many would probably think dead. talked otis relationship family, answers complicated. member fruit islam (the paramilitary wing nation islam, islamic religious movement famously led malcom x) younger days. nation islam's stated goals improve spiritual, mental, social, economic condition african americans. otis devout muslim said helped "clean streets" drug dealers. "we wasn't bad," would say. otis said family members didn't buy that. didn't know would angry happy see years away. nervous energy walked pine street, knocking doors asking strangers dottie moore. final story otis johnson one reconnection reconciliation. story man quest reunite remnants past one, hope, many relate to. filmmakers: jenna belhumeur & elena boffetta editor: andrew phillips audio: linus bergman & john otimi assistant producer: ziad ramley executive producer: yasir khan source: al jazeera authors jenna belhumeur elena boffetta shorts us & canada
renderpagesvideo('5255184645001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); child, victoria muumbi's parents could afford provide proper education. means supporting education, forced drop school early age. local charity shining hope communities (shofco) started providing free adult classes basic literacy, among first sign up. 35 years old mother two, makes lost time bags enthusiasm. "i done two good years, easy," told al jazeera waited day's lesson begin. hundreds adults attended classes since started two years ago kibera. majority students women, diverse range motivations learning read later life. simply want able fill government forms without help, others want work jobs require literate. victoria, however, greater ambitions. "when finish school would like businesswoman, want work myself," said. al jazeera spent day victoria fellow students kenya's biggest slum. source: al jazeera author hassan ghani hassan ghani producer al jazeera. @ hassan_ghani human rights kenya education africa
renderpagesvideo('5252733638001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); "it's loud, recoil big." jun wang clearly remembers excitement fear felt first touched real gun gun range des plaines, suburb chicago. man grew china playing toy guns watching movies garrison's gorillas, gun longer toy. "it tool weapon protect with." wang came us mid-1990s studies computer science, went become software engineer motorola. back then, even could hardly imagine one day would become gun coach, advocating gun rights gun ownership among fellow chinese americans. wang left company started work independent software engineer house evanston, illinois, became acutely aware scope home invasions, armed robberies gun violence incidents city chicago well rest country, specifically targeting asians. weapon could find home protect family someone broke house kitchen knife. prompted think buying firearms. wang's wife zhiling lan disagreed husband first heard plan buy guns, eventually sided explained concerns safety. despite country's strictest gun laws, chicago one highest numbers killings shootings us, partly owing widespread availability guns. wang vows give back guns unless guns hands criminals also taken away. "in china, nobody guns, [were] used environment [in which] nobody gun, everyone safe," lan explained. "but come country, realise china." getting licence gun coach, wang already started teaching home. first student oldest son, 13-year-old alan, mastered use many kinds pistols, rifles shotguns. wang teaches alan shoot, younger son aiden, 7, allowed observe recite safety rules along brother. addition teaching basic laws safe-handling rules students interested buying guns, jun wang also offers regular safety lectures small workshops chinese living chicago area, free charge. believes way change stereotypical view chinese americans easy targets times violence owning guns. filmmakers: xiao lyu & yunfei zhao editor: andrew phillips executive producer: yasir khan shorts
video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5296218119001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5296218119001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > abdullah 'dallas' mussa working journalist local radio dj nairobi's kibera slum two decades. population 200,000, slum considered kenya's biggest dallas lot ground cover. he's made mission voice disenfranchised hold powerful account. life isn't made easier authorities. "i problems police. i've slapped several times because, maybe, i'm right place wrong time," told al jazeera. al jazeera spent day dallas walked us life journalist, local celebrity, kenya's biggest slum. source: al jazeera author hassan ghani hassan ghani producer al jazeera. @ hassan_ghani poverty & development human rights kenya africa
renderpagesvideo('5270181649001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); said neither hear speak. 27-year-old stuck spanish enclave melilla, morocco’s northern coast, trying get europe. hopes make better life himself. one hundreds young moroccans sneak melilla every day live streets, planning stow away one many boats sail spanish peninsula, there, make way various destinations europe. many children, young eight, fleeing economic hardship. said attempted suicide textile factory worked went bankrupt. wasn’t paid salary months. social media images stories young moroccans like made across mediterranean lured europe. goal reunite brother germany. (note: spoken words film. wanted viewer see said way people life do.) filmmaker: guillem valle editor: andrew phillips executive producer: yasir khan source: al jazeera shorts refugee crisis
renderpagesvideo('5449652316001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); every day dawn till dusk 74-year-old mr sariban patrols streets bandung indonesia bicycle looking garbage shaming dare litter city. started mission 30 years ago dismissed crazy. today he's local hero. source: al jazeera author hassan ghani hassan ghani producer al jazeera. @ hassan_ghani environment indonesia asia pacific
abuzar belgrade february year [preethi nallu/al jazeera] belgrade, serbia - "i waiting play 'game', cross last border europe," said 11-year-old abuzar resolute calmness, despite own. amid scores men gathered around fire survive unforgiving serbian winter, afghan boy looked strikingly young. al jazeera met february 2017 belgrade, temperatures dipped low -14 degrees celsius night. "game" codeword smugglers refugees use referring illegal border crossings balkan countries. 300,000 children across globe travelled alone past two years hope getting asylum, according unicef . abuzar among 100,000 unaccompanied separated children travelled balkan route 2016, according belgrade centre human rights (bchr). 1,500 men boys shared squalid refugee squat behind belgrade's central railway station, many since autumn 2016, waiting try reach northern europe help smugglers. historic train stop architectural wonder source much pride locals. nearby warehouses, previously used storing livestock, gave meagre refuge mostly afghan asylum seekers. even roof heads ripped away serbian authorities evicted refugees. four hundred children among seeking shelter remain missing, although serbian government insists taken underage reception centres. abuzar believed camps like would eventually become detention centres would sent back bulgaria , says border police beat stole everything had, including pair warm trousers. abuzar played "the game" march 2017, hasn't seen since. oxfam's local partner, bchr, tried locate him, avail. amid border closures, bounced different balkan states, refugees unwittingly ended serbia taking greater risks arrive safe country europe. hiked way home baghlan province, afghanistan , pakistan's balochistan border, iran , turkey, bulgaria, serbia - abuzar determined press reached sweden . "once cross last border, reach europe bring family sweden," said. source: al jazeera author preethi nallu preethi nallu independent journalist researcher focused migration founding editor refugees deeply. @ preethi_nallu shorts refugees human rights europe
renderpagesvideo('5541586388001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); nabi saleh, occupied west bank - friday day protest nabi saleh. manal tamimi going protests long remember. her, palestinian parent activist. it's impossible separate two roles. taking care children often involves protecting israeli soldiers settlers. "ninety percent palestinian mothers experience, one point lives, one children either injured arrested," said. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5541581425001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5541581425001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > companion piece: another night raid nabi saleh it's true family. eldest son, osama, shot tear gas canister could see clearly almost two months. second son, hamada, also injured twice. second injury came israeli soldier shot thigh .22 calibre live ammunition. shrapnel bullet still lodged leg. manal marches illegal settlements writes social media posts administrative detention, says fighting children's future defending rights. manal husband bilal part nabi saleh's local media team. bilal films photographs every protest village runs twitter account . mother occupied territory also means difficult conversations young children. witnessed friends family members beaten, arrested even killed manal arrested shot once. traumatised daughter, manal stopped going protests while. injuries also forced stay home fridays. hosts journalists activists come nabi saleh, cooks protesters return exhausted teary-eyed mace. manal likes say, "there one way resist." archive footage: bilal tamimi music: melt broke free source: al jazeera author hyojin park hyojin park video journalist al jazeera english. shorts middle east palestine
renderpagesvideo('5545877451001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); faisalabad, pakistan - mohammed rafiq bus painter pakistan . like millions compatriots, rafiq started work age 12, missing education exploited child labourer. "we would put heart it," said rafiq, recalling early days bus painter. "nowadays apprentices come see day job," sighs, sitting plastic chair muddy tarmac pakistan's iconic colourful buses roll by. picked painting quickly gained notoriety skill, drawing beautiful scenes buses would travel across country. "my work spread pakistan. didn't get much money per bus." forty years painting buses without safety equipment taken toll mohammed rafiq [hassan ghani/al jazeera] average daily wage bus painter today around 600 rupees ($6). rafiq says could barely survive, unable secure decent education children struggling pay rent month. passion work pulled through. "everything done hand, brush. beautiful. use machine printed material, beautiful way." 40 years working without safety equipment precautions taken toll. 69 years old, rafiq's lungs failing. "this sickness paint, chemicals, thinners, petrol fumes," explains, gasping breath. many men worked alongside also suffer way. none able afford proper treatment. despite passion work, rafiq says keen others follow footsteps. "i don't want people job. couldn't save money life. couldn't educate children. fate wasn't side." pakistani bus truck art world-famous [hassan ghani/al jazeera] source: al jazeera author hassan ghani hassan ghani producer al jazeera. @ hassan_ghani asia pakistan health poverty & development
renderpagesvideo('5526001967001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); dhalabari, india - hot summer night 1991. karimul haque washed clammy, mud-soaked hands sat eat. forty cents day wasn’t enough make ends meet, long, hard day sun, working labourer nearby farm, karimul looking forward hot meal night's sleep. barely touched rice saw 10-year-old nephew running him, screaming, grandmother unconscious. karimul ran towards room saw mother lying prostrate floor. next five half hours blur. “we didn’t money ambulance. brother tried knocked every door, pleading neighbours take mother hospital. one helped us,” karimul haque recalls. 3:30 morning, mother, jafaran nesa, died. 45 years old. mother’s death, he’s convinced preventable, kept gnawing several months. thought one village meet mother’s fate. karimul started working tea garden worker put savings buying bike. health luxury afford karimul's village [al jazeera] past 15 years, karimul split time working tea garden taking patients village surrounding areas hospitals free. ties sick injured back cloth, starts engine rickety bike ploughs bad, pockmarked roads, crossing wide rivers thick forests. village, dhalabari, nestled outer foothills himalayas lush, fertile, plains eastern india . picturesque strip land dotted tea gardens dense jungle animals roam freely often get way travellers, making karimul’s journey even dangerous precarious night. tea garden workers earn $1.80 day eight hours work pick 24 kilos tea leaves. health luxury parts afford trip hospital might cost fortune. karimul takes health centres hospitals free visits labour lines see anyone needs help. karimul says saved 4,000 lives. small front room crammed awards certificates. earlier year, received one india’s top civilian honours country’s president. owner tea garden, impressed success, lets focus time ambulance service. karimul’s two sons, raju rajesh help days. “i want build care centre outside house people don’t travel far. want keep work then, die, two sons carry mission forward,” says. filmmaker: priyanka gupta cameraperson: angshu/priyanka gupta editor: andrew phillips executive producer: yasir khan source: al jazeera author priyanka gupta health india poverty & development asia
renderpagesvideo('5640475234001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); warsaw, poland - warsaw-born bartek jakubowski never thought "sick", becomes disgruntled whenever reads articles referring people autism "seriously ill". " outraged media outlets describe asperger's disease," 28-year-old man says. sickness, explains. rather, disorder, manifests differently every person. bartek diagnosed autism two years old. age 16, found suffers asperger's syndrome, part broader category autism spectrum disorder. one estimated 30,000 poles autism spectrum. figure, according non-profit organisation, synapsis , could much higher, research area conducted domestically, estimate based studies neighbouring countries. last year, bartek worked supported employment enterprise where, admission, never felt home. life changed dramatically january 2016, began working "zycie jest fajne" (life cool), warsaw-based cafe employing people autism spectrum. "i feel like don't work place hires mentally ill people anymore. normal job," says, visibly content pulls arranges tables outside cafe opens. "special treatment" life cool, bartek assigned variety tasks, ranging getting cafe ready business, cleaning, serving customers taking orders. employment entails regular chores. part job, also required attend therapy weekly check-ins coworkers, prefers call "friends". bartek jakubowski works 'life cool' cafe warsaw. [al jazeera/ marta kasztelan ] here, seems found sense belonging, offered peer support set new trajectory. encouraged coworkers, believe would make great journalist, driven dislike portrayal autism polish media, bartek shot documentary film colleagues life cool. october 2016, short, titled "'a' like human being", grand prix national film review persons spectrum autism. young, bubbly man wants challenge stereotypes people spectrum autism show others "the way really are". "there stereotype people asperger's, like me, can't really talk don't really understand saying them," explains. "i refute that." admits leading less normal life might come harder colleagues, bartek confident make opportunities he's given. "i believe make it," says, adds: "i almost certain it. prefer hope." filmmaker: marta kasztelan editor: andrew phillips executive producer: yasir khan source: al jazeera author marta kasztelan mental health shorts health poland
renderpagesvideo('5591800322001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); dzoel hands legs doesn't let get way love photography. banyuwangi, indonesia - despite born without hands legs, achmad zulkarnain, known dzoel friends, didn't realise different eight years old, children school began teasing appearance. "i found big mirror. realized i'm different everyone else," told al jazeera. followed period depression. stopped leaving house. eventually, support family friends, regained enough confidence go back class, later graduating high school getting job running internet cafe. "there photography service there. decided buy camera credit. learned learned learned known photographer." dzoel's hobby turned profession. gained thousands followers instagram striking images landscapes fashion shoots, services demand weddings school yearbooks. also volunteers local youth club, teaching camera photoshop skills. content dependent others get around, designed go-cart style vehicle himself, adapted fit needs. family friends helped source parts put together. today, 24 years old, dzoel dismisses still label disabled. "i'm disabled. i'm simply person created different way. way things," told al jazeera. al jazeera spent day dzoel. watch video top find more. dzoel designed vehicle get around banyuwangi. [hassan ghani/al jazeera] source: al jazeera human rights asia pacific shorts
thousands indigenous children forcibly removed homes placed non-native families [courtesy nakuset] montreal, canada - nakuset knows different life could been. cree woman lac la ronge, saskatchewan, province central canada , taken mother young child bounced relatives foster homes. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5490753053001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5490753053001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > canada 150: indigenous people remember dark past pageloadedsuccessfully three, adopted jewish family montreal, nearly 2,500km away. "being pushed completely different culture, got kinds cultural shame every day. allowed tell anyone native - bad thing," nakuset told al jazeera. decades, cut biological family, including older sister, sonya, woken one morning foster home find nakuset disappeared without trace. took years sisters reunited. "sonya looked me, every single day, years," said nakuset, heads native women's shelter montreal. 'disastrous' sixties scoop nakuset one thousands indigenous children taken families native communities across canada, placed non-indigenous adoptive homes foster care. removals, largely took place 1960s 1980s, known collectively sixties scoop. october 6, federal government announced reached $640m agreement, principle, sixties scoop survivors across canada lost indigenous identity result long-standing practice. indigenous children adopted placed foster care never told indigenous roots. lost contact families communities lost language, culture identity. adoptive families abusive, many children endured emotional, physical sexual abuse suffered lasting trauma. went homes across canada, others removed us, uk, australia countries. {articleguid} raven sinclair, professor social work university regina member george gordon first nation southern saskatchewan, said child welfare officials literally scooped children first nations reserves cases. "the system really took one look said, 'indigenous people can't parent, best thing us take children away, raise white people, everything great,'" sinclair told al jazeera. "and really proved disastrous." sixties scoop survivor herself, sinclair taken mother four neighbour called social services. said experienced physical sexual abuse foster home. explained didn't suffer abuse adoptive home, confronted racism bullying every day growing up. "cloak silence" shrouded sixties scoop long time, sinclair said, federal settlement "symbolic acknowledgement wrong done". compensation healing settlement, first nations inuit children taken homes 1951 1991 eligible personal compensation. amount range $20,000 $40,000 person. depending many claims filed, could add total $600m. ottawa estimates 16,000 survivors entitled personal payout, government yet explained survivors apply compensation prove claim. another $40m go towards establishing foundation help survivors heal, $60m allocated help pay legal fees. carolyn bennett, minister responsible affairs state indigenous peoples, said settlement "begin right wrongs" committed sixties scoop. deal comes federal court judge ruled favour sixties scoop survivors class-action lawsuit ontario, canada's populous province, last february. national gathering 'sixties scoop survivors september, survivors blanketed ceremony welcome home [courtesy colleen cardinal] government failed take steps make sure indigenous children forcibly removed families lose native culture, language identity, court found. federal agreement also puts end least 18 class-action lawsuits filed behalf sixties scoop survivors various stages across canada. "they lived lives able proud indigenous people," bennett said effect sixties scoop survivors. "they lived lives secure, personal cultural identity. robbed. someone thought non-indigenous family somewhere else world going better job." 'thousands excluded' yet, sixties scoop survivors included recent deal. metis fall outside scope agreement, non-status indigenous peoples (individuals whose indigenous status recognised government), provided eligible status. metis mixed indigenous-european ancestry officially recognised aboriginal peoples canadian constitution, alongside first nations inuit peoples. "it's like we're nobody," gary tinker, metis survivor sixties scoop, recently told cbc canada. "i'm glad first nations, don't get wrong," said. "but never even mentioned metis citizens foster care." {articleguid} duane morrisseau-beck, cofounder national indigenous survivors child welfare network metis sixties scoop survivor, said felt like canada "is playing divide conquer" agreement. "this falls far national settlement playing extremely negatively survivor community," morrisseau-beck said statement. colleen cardinal, cofounder national indigenous survivors child welfare network , said "very mixed feelings" settlement, part since many survivors excluded. "for thousands people excluded must re-traumatising, left something huge … work much harder get healing acknowledgement, shouldn't to," 45-year-old told al jazeera. 'we'll waiting' saddle lake first nation, south edmonton, alberta, cardinal child taken family placed abusive, adoptive home ontario two sisters. estranged adoptive family, limited contact birth family, cardinal said meeting sixties scoop survivors sharing stories invaluable healing. that's sort healing programmes coming federal settlement - include focus indigenous languages culture - must survivor-led, said. "we're start i'm hoping survivors help lead state accountable [and] transparent did," said. cardinal said formal apology government would also help survivors heal, needs accompanied concrete action. sixties scoop survivors, meanwhile, know aren't alone. "i want know … come home," cardinal said. "we'll waiting them." pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news author jillian kestler-d'amours first nations human rights canada racism us & canada
kashmiri protestors shout pro-freedom anti-indian slogans srinagar [file: tauseef mustafa/afp/getty images] srinagar, indian-administered kashmir – india's prime minister narendra modi appointed former intelligence chief interlocutor hold talks "stakeholders" indian-administered kashmir find political solution kashmir issue. appointment former intelligence bureau chief dineshwar sharma, tasked holding talks kashmiri leaders, including separatists, break modi government's hardline policy past three years. people muslim-majority region see "little hope" breakthrough similar initiatives past failed address problem kashmir, seen increased unrest recent years. earlier week, india's home minister rajnath singh made announcement appointment sharma reach people disputed region, claimed india pakistan entirety. 2016 bloody summer 100 protesters killed hundreds maimed blinded pellet guns, people little hopes. sceptical make difference ground. kashmir-based political analyst, noor ahmad baba told al jazeera approach government headed hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party (bjp) past years created trust deficit among common people. "kashmir dispute complex problem cannot solved one person vague political mandate," baba said. "it also important know kind mandate person going talk kashmir. past, many working groups constituted [successive] indian government[s]. one even touched reports recommendations, going change much ground," said. trust deficit pointing resentment among people, baba said bjp government needs recognise political dimension kashmir issue. previous upa government headed congress party formed three-member interlocutors 2010 hold dialogue sections kashmiri leadership, recommendations followed through. khurram parvez, human rights activist based srinagar, says government make terms reference clear term 'interlocutor' means kashmir. "many people came past dialogue nothing meaningful happened. talk people indian government talking to, result going same," parvez said, adding stakeholders kashmir conflict india, pakistan separatists anyone consulted exercise futile. ghulam muhammad, resident kashmir’s main city srinagar, said appointment interlocutor "just repetition deceit, distraction denial ground reality". "these things longer excite surprise kashmiri. tricks government dealing civilian protesters iron fist want buy time ground reality," 40-year-old said. indian government tried send number delegations kashmir part initiatives stop armed rebellion 1990s, peak. 2010 interlocutors group appointed five months civilian uprising claimed 120 civilian lives. team comprising dilip padgaonkar, mm ansari professor radha kumar came report, never taken seriously recommendations ignored created trust deficit. anti-militancy operation continues sharma's appointment government’s emissary, army chief bipin rawat said step impact anti-insurgency operation kashmir, referring continuation operation rebels. many believe rebels important part kashmir dispute attempt made without involvement going bring solution. "at level, militants taken consideration. problem product conflict, need assessed problems need addressed," noor baba central university kashmir said. indian security forces launched major counterinsurgency operation, resulted killing 130 fighters civilians year, according officials. august 15 year, india's 70th independence day, prime minister modi insisted "abuse bullets' solve kashmir issue, "embracing kashmiris" do. local kashmiris say relief continuous bloodshed. "we seen anything cosmetic treatment don’t expect anything extraordinary time," said suhail ahmad, local resident. long-pending dispute nuclear-armed rivals india pakistan administer part kashmir. rebel groups fighting since 1989 indian-administered portion either become independent merge pakistan. nearly 70,000 people killed uprising ensuing indian military crackdown. india maintains roughly half million soldiers territory. india accuses pakistan arming training rebels, pakistan denies. rebel groups largely suppressed indian forces recent years public opposition indian rule principally expressed street protests. source: al jazeera news author rifat fareed kashmir india asia pakistan human rights
abu mumin's role eden care involves providing companionship terminally ill family loved ones care [photo courtesy eden care] photos right abu mumin anything go by, saves smiles people helping. although far curt impolite demeanour, voice carries seriousness matched expression body language, rarely fidgeting breaking eye contact. several pictures show wide smile posing beside patients hospital beds. social worker london part organisation called eden care , identifies terminally ill people loved ones look sets providing companionship towards end lives. people work estranged families, final weeks life would otherwise spent alone. 'muslims ended christian burials' {articleguid} group's office london borough tower hamlets, mumin sits small leather sofa besides microwave box stack documents leaflets. walls room plastered photos volunteers terminally ill people work others depicting funeral proceedings. "our work involves intensive befriending," explains, continuing: "we spend evenings give company, take food, activities, read quran, even take trips places can't visit physical disabilities." people mumin eden care help muslims, group also befriends people not. organisation works partners faiths ensure muslim funeral arrangements according preferred rites. converts islam, often referred "reverts" muslims, one key demographics eden care works with, mumin voiced concern likely face difficulties towards end lives people born faith. "we get lot reverts often members families muslim, find quite isolated worried happen die," mumin says, adding: "we muslims ended christian burials, example." cases, role takes educative legal dimension, educating next kin islamic burial procedures drawing necessary paperwork ensure dying buried according religious tradition. "there cases families insisted non-muslim burial, others supportive wishes relative," explains. drawing personal experiences mumin volunteers eden care helped bury 52 people since organisation established late 2014, befriended many terminally ill people. londoner bangladeshi origin drew experience looking late mother diagnosed terminal illness late 1990s. initially given six months live, went live 15 years diagnosis. died, mumin felt absence loved one, lifestyle grown accustomed caring her. "the day mum died, part before, lost that," reflects, adding: "what gave peace helping ... lot services [eden care offer] reflective experiences." religious obligations it's personal experiences mother drive mumin. religion plays important role, too, especially islam's invocations look sick, communal requirement muslims ensure fellow muslim buried according islamic rites. "both historically today, funeral remains social obligation, defined 'fard kifayah' islamic theology," says abdul azim ahmed, researcher contemporary islam. "like births marriages, death something affects community, funeral islamic tradition reaffirms individuals, belong life death," explains. death illness therefore take social dimension muslims like mumin, rather concern small circle family close friends. grenfell tower fire ethos social obligation meant eden care well placed respond recent grenfell tower tragedy. mumin group's volunteers helped bury 12 victims fire, several funerals planned. organisation offered services muslims non-muslims affected fire, left least 80 people dead. also practical considerations driving group's work. "by year 2030, there'll quarter million muslims age 65 ... need concentrate issue care," mumin says, citing figures charity, hospice uk. warns muslims slow respond growing need care within community need act fast. "we need interested ... multilevel issue, graves, care homes, hospitals; need get thinking we're responding," mumin says. end, eden care working london muslim centre, one largest mosques uk, host awareness events end life care. despite satisfaction work eden care doing, toll frequently burying people gotten know months years brought mumin verge quitting. "when got 30th burial, said can't hack ... hard," says, explaining decided resign summer reversed decision grenfell disaster. "i'm youth worker, burial person, every time used go one burials used come feeling exhausted would cry," says. mumin one 30 people eden care, majority volunteers. work earned deep respect locals london concedes scale work relatively small much needed. "it's duty ... think we're scratching surface." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5602285138001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5602285138001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > death family (48:30) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera author shafik mandhai @ shafikfm human rights united kingdom islam
since december 15 agreement brokered russia, iran rebel fighters evacuate besieged communities eastern aleppo villages foua kefraya way, albeit faltering times owing infringements deal. humanitarian crisis aleppo rightly international spotlight, wisdom evacuation deal largely gone unquestioned. unfortunate many ways uprooting aleppo's residents idlib case jumping frying pan fire. moving aleppans already stressed area video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5254663457001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5254663457001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: un passes resolution monitors aleppo (2:19) pageloadedsuccessfully evacuation aleppans inevitably lead displacement temporary shelters vulnerable away home environment families. idlib province already struggling meet basic needs residents governance deeply divided rebel groups. transfer 50,000 internally displaced persons could overwhelm local coping capacities, leaving local residents newly displaced increasingly dependent upon humanitarian system, remain mercy regime allies make mind next move. international rescue committee spokesperson last week said "escaping aleppo doesn't mean escaping war. witnessing ferocity attacks civilians aleppo, concerned sieges barrel bombs follow thousands arrive idlib". given international community failed stand aleppo time need, basis thinking civilians caught crossfire renewed attempts russia assad regime fare better. turn concept evacuation safety full-scale eviction entire community totally unacceptable. rebels faced choice accepting rejecting deal, true residents eastern aleppo, least reported favour remaining homes. made considering international community increasingly sees bashar al-assad lesser evil face al-qaeda-linked jabhat fateh al-sham (formerly al-nusra front) dominates much idlib province. european diplomat quoted saying "fighters choice surviving weeks idlib dying aleppo". extension, civilians evacuated idlib face prospect buying time cost evacuation. yet stark warning presents false dichotomy. destinations explored evacuees. turkey constructed camps internally displaced near border within northern syria, yet allowing urgent need medical treatment. depravity situation calls turkey neighbouring states act unilaterally provide safe displaced aleppans. meanwhile, international community stood position evacuation made neutralise eastern aleppo offering safe passage fighters immediate families, leaving arms ability pose threat behind. opinion: 'palestinisation' syrian people ideally would accompanied monitoring mechanism ensure forces assad regime allies respect international law enter east city. turn concept evacuation safety full-scale eviction entire community totally unacceptable. rebels faced choice accepting rejecting deal, true residents eastern aleppo, least reported favour remaining homes. russia weigh in? video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5254629219001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5254629219001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: refugees idlib, safety major concern (2:19) pageloadedsuccessfully taking civilians eastern aleppo diminish likelihood eventual return homes. evacuation subsequent destruction 2006 nahr el-bared refugee camp lebanon led protracted displacement residents still returning homes decade later. given double displacement occurred relatively stable context high international support, chances return eastern aleppo vanishingly small. worse fate aleppo's residents tied destiny communities go similar ethno-sectarian uprooting. iranian intervention tie evacuation fate foua kefraya complicated matters existing balance two villages madaya zabadani based gentleman's agreement hezbollah jabhat fateh al-sham. opinion: rubble aleppo, isil rises anything, shows although russia seems focused mind reaching solution meets objectives finally reached understanding turkey, clearly underestimated deviousness "deep state" iran, hides behind excuses cannot control militia ground. russians must tread carefully war fought land air inevitably less control situation. united nations security council's resolution unanimously accepted december 19, establishing monitoring mission, welcome development, albeit several weeks late. russia seek play proactive role monitoring protect civilians uphold reputation region. sultan barakat director center conflict humanitarian studies, doha institute graduate studies. sansom milton senior research fellow center conflict humanitarian studies, doha institute graduate studies. views expressed article authors' necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. authors sultan barakat sultan barakat director center conflict humanitarian studies doha institute. @ barakat_sultan sansom milton sansom milton senior research fellow doha institute graduate studies. @ sansommilton battle aleppo syria's civil war humanitarian crises war & conflict middle east
candlelight vigil victims fighting aleppo held dam square amsterdam, netherlands [epa] solidarity aleppo, lights eiffel tower extinguished. elsewhere paris, london, amsterdam, oslo copenhagen, people demonstrated slaughter. turks rallied outside russian iranian embassies consulates istanbul, ankara erzurum. people sarajevo, experience genocide, staged big protest. protests nothing like large united states bombed iraq, welcome nonetheless. level support apparent last six years, would made real difference. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5250830707001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5250830707001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: aleppo: evacuation civilians rebels suspended (2:11) pageloadedsuccessfully perhaps making difference even now. public sympathy victims may pressured vladimir putin allow surviving liberated sliver aleppo evacuate, rather face annihilation. time writing, fate deal doubt, subject whims militias ground. works tens thousands currently trapped allowed leave - best possible outcome - witnesses internationally brokered forced population transfer. war crime crime humanity, terrible image precarious state global system. weight event, future ramifications, deserve demonstrations. 'war terrorism' excuse abandonment aleppo microcosm general abandonment syria's democratic revolution. exposes failures arab muslim worlds, west, humanity whole. many syrians expected global left would first support cause, leftist commentators publications retreated conspiracy theories, islamophobia, inaccurate geopolitical analysis, swallowed gobbets assadist propaganda whole. soon, repeating "war terror" tropes right. victory assad also victory isil. obama administration provided little rhetorical support sometimes allowed allies send weapons free army. crucially, however, obama vetoed supply anti-aircraft weapons free army, desperately needed counter assad's scorched-earth campaign. august 2013, assad killed 1,500 people sarin gas damascus suburbs, obama's chemical "red line" vanished, us less publicly handed syria russia iran. keeping "war terror" framework, us bombs islamic state iraq levant (isil) others syria, hitting symptoms rather cause crisis. europe, meanwhile, declares crisis refugees arriving shores. long assad remains power, refugees return home. arab states, combination sectarianism, iranian domination, counter-revolutionary fervour led several collude assad's war. others supported elements opposition, disorganised tepid manner. isil assad winning tragedy also exposed weaknesses syrian society, vulnerabilities assad cleverly manipulated. organising massacres (particularly 2012, plain homs hama), releasing salafist-jihadists prison, even tortured killed thousands democratic activists, inviting foreign shia militias, assad engineered sectarian breakdown. many syrians fell easily trap. when, instance, zahran alloush - founder jaish al-islam beneficiary assad's prison amnesty - called damascus "cleansed shia influence", played right assad's hands. opinion: say syrian revolution dead? yet, revolution exposed strengths syrians didn't know possessed. communities held elections organised local councils. set women's centres, independent trades unions free radio tv stations. aleppo far largest centre civil society initiatives. it's surprising conservative states allow revolution drown. it's shocking stand idle arab sovereignty collapses. assad lost war provoked. september 2015, russian bombing started, depleted army held less fifth country. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5248987831001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5248987831001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: syrian envoy uses fake picture emergency unsc meeting (1:12) pageloadedsuccessfully calculated correctly, however, powerful friends would come aid. russia arrived employed usual excuse - "war terror", case isil, also known isis - less 20 percent bombs fell anywhere near isil. instead, planes focused relentlessly eviscerating free syrian army, well civilian infrastructure liberated areas. burned schools, hospitals markets. dropped cluster munitions, incendiary bombs bunker busters - banned civilian areas - residential blocks. these, too, war crimes. majority ground forces surrounding aleppo syrian. shia jihadists lebanon, iraq, afghanistan pakistan, funded trained iran. well proxies, iran islamic revolutionary guards corps (irgc) theatre, often commanding syrians. iraq too, sectarian popular mobilisation units irgc command. lebanon, iranian-inspired funded hezbollah dominates. iranian expansionism accompanies sectarian/political cleansing areas homs damascus, well aleppo, creating demographic changes won't reversed another consignment missiles. victory assad also victory isil. aleppo subjugated, isil retook palmyra, capturing important weapons stocks. time, increasing number syrians facing sectarian aggression - though still minority - buying nihilist isil narrative. none stays syria. arabs respond? hamas organised protest gaza, kuwaitis demonstrated outside russian embassy, qatar cancelled national day celebrations. it's nearly enough. good reason, revolutionary thinker yassin al-haj saleh wrote "palestinisation" syrian people. sixty-eight years failing defend palestine, arab states proved incapable defending syria russian, iranian isil occupation. have, however, taught repeat lesson subjects - sovereignty meaningless without democratic control. imperative, galvanised 2011 revolutions, today relevant ever. robin yassin-kassab author novel road damascus. co-author leila al-shami book syrian revolution war, burning country (pluto, january 2016). co-edits www.pulsemedia.org blogs www.qunfuz.com . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author robin yassin-kassab robin yassin-kassab author novel road damascus. @ qunfuz1 battle aleppo syria's civil war middle east war & conflict
flood-affected couple sits along flooded roadside picture jayalalithaa jayaram, chief minister southern indian state tamil nadu, december 6 [reuters] women become heads government india single. it's unwritten job requirement. indira gandhi, became india's prime minister, nandini satpathy, sheila dixit, vasundhara raje, uma bharti, mamata banerjee, jayalalithaa jayaram kumari mayawati, served terms provincial chief ministers, unmarried separated widowed moment ascension time top. sonia gandhi doesn't figure list didn't actually hold political office despite president congress party led governing coalition decade. chosen become prime minister, would borne rule. women rule modern india consorts. something south asian rule. sirimavo bandaranaike, modern world's first female head government, became prime minister ceylon 1960 following assassination husband, solomon bandaranaike, term prime minister 1959. daughter, chandrika kumaratunga, first woman president sri lanka 1994 2005, widowed six years became president, husband assassinated 1988. begum khaleda zia, first female prime minister bangladesh, widow general ziaur rahman, president bangladesh, assassinated 1981. opposite female emancipation video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5237696491001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5237696491001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: india - thousands gather jayaram’s funeral (2:02) pageloadedsuccessfully say south asian politics position women within it? first all, testifies fact politics south asia savagely violent. tells us family connections south asia trump gender prejudice comes high political office. doesn't mean south asian electorates emancipated feminist way. means reverse; patriarchal charisma male relative posthumously transferred. male politician halo widowed wife, orphaned daughter, even bereaved mistress, political legitimacy, legitimacy comes price. female successor must publicly celibate. woman prime minister chief minister sub-continent can't - even implication - sexually active. neutered singleness sexuality woman isn't - man - sign potency, it's mark weakness, susceptibility. public man statesman; public woman something else again. female politician virtuous needs insulated carnality spinsterhood widowhood. read more: jayalalithaa jayaram dies 68 there's another reason, unrelated sexuality, makes almost impossible married woman hold high political office. since husbands south asia think wives, married woman often seen puppet - autonomous political actor. lalu yadav syndrome. erstwhile chief minister bihar installed wife, rabri devi, place-holder chief minister state serving time jail corruption. regardless charismatic independent woman is, way escape stigma male ventriloquist's dummy dispense men altogether. bearing male's legacy two exceptions rule. benazir bhutto, pakistan's first female prime minister, married asif zardari right political career. sheikh hasina, second term prime minister bangladesh, served full term prime minister 1996 2001 married woman. sidestep stigma sexed creatures, subordinate male keeper? it's worth remembering benazir bhutto sheikh hasina weren't widowed, violently orphaned. zulfiqar ali bhutto, prime minister pakistan, judicially executed military usurper, zia-ul-haq, sheikh mujibur rahman assassinated military coup along family. springboards political careers fathers' "martyrdoms". benazir bhutto ever referred father "shaheed" (martyr) sheikh hasina's entire political career prime minister devoted reinstating father's legacy punishing individuals, parties institutions conspired murder him. it's curious attempts women replicate political authority male counterparts take granted, gendered read peculiarly feminine failure create fraternal, rational politics. ruled, literally, name fathers. single-minded fidelity dead man's legacy kept owned public eye living male consort. female heads government india single, public personas shaped nature singleness. widows children differently regarded women never married don't children. indira gandhi, sheila dixit, nandini sathpathy vasundhara raje humanised families: single woman children placed someone wife still mother. indians understand web family attachments shapes woman's life. understand dynastic succession even don't approve it. indira followed father, nehru, wanted sons succeed wasn't nepotism, normality. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5228095362001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5228095362001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: akhtar bi dalit india (0:58) pageloadedsuccessfully authoritarian harpies? powerful, unmarried, childless women seen unnatural and, end, unnerving. kumari mayawati, mamata banerjee, uma bharti jayalalitha jayaram, provincial chief ministers, nothing common except fact single women. mayawati dalit woman india's western uttar pradesh region. mamata banerjee brahmin raised shabby genteel poverty single-handedly saw communist party india (marxist). uma bharti "backward caste" woman took vows became jogin, sort hindu nun. jayalalithaa english-speaking brahmin first became famous film star tamil movies. yet, trawl newspapers news television way described, could forgiven thinking single person: authoritarian harpy rules via cult personality reduces party colleagues acolytes policy whimsical, self-aggrandising gestures. opinion: indian muslim feminists - reformists traitors point description inaccurate: mayawati, mamata banerjee jayalalithaa rule party supremos peers; polite liberal fiction first among equals. jayalalithaa required received public slavishness ministers party men so, lesser degree, mamata mayawati. sexism stereotype lies fact traits seen noteworthy political culture cult personality norm performance deference mandatory. submitting male norms video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5237403798001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5237403798001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: india - analysing jayalalithaa jayaram’s legacy (4:59) pageloadedsuccessfully indian politics powerful male chief ministers marudur gopalan ramachandran, nandamuri taraka rama rao, lalu yadav mulayam singh yadav routinely ran electoral despotisms within currency preferment sycophancy. it's curious attempts women replicate political authority male counterparts take granted, gendered read peculiarly feminine failure create fraternal, rational politics. ease governments headed women seen practitioners "harem politics" decisions grow intrigue, hysteria suspicion, tells us inadequacies men rule women. unnaturalness womanly rule experienced emasculation men. governments headed women disparaged monstrous, men serve seen political eunuchs. submit absolute authority woman unmanned. triumph women mayawati, jayalalithaa mamata manage beat odds predatory male world reach top. stay there, deflect sexist charge barren viragos, have, ironically, deny sexuality recasting nurturing kin constituencies. it's coincidence jayalalithaa amma (mother) voters, mayawati behenji (sister) mamata didi (older sister). fictive kin roles normalise remarkable single women. tragedy necessary avatars matter powerful become, one thing cannot themselves. mukul kesavan writer based delhi. teaches history jamia millia islamia recent book collection essays, homeless google earth. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author mukul kesavan mukul kesavan writer based delhi teaches history jamia millia islamia. women's rights india politics asia pakistan
leaders pose photo aseanssummit manila [bullit marquez/pool/reuters] manila, philippines - two days ceremonious meetings, southeast asian leaders missed bullseye talks two major human rights issues affecting region: myanmar's handling rohingya crisis philippines' bloody campaign illegal drug traffickers. philippines president rodrigo duterte, year's chairman association southeast asian nations (asean), managed fend criticism "war drugs", left thousands people dead. "i think duterte smart using event legitimise push back criticism drug war," said richard heydarian, geopolitical analyst de la salle university manila. "we saw major country raising drug war issue ever raised it, low-key." tit-for-tat. duterte spared myanmar counterpart, de facto leader aung san suu kyi, explain account plight 600,000 rohingya forced flee country bangladesh. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5640320980001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5640320980001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > 101 east - rohingya exodus (26:01) driven violence state forces, displaced rohingya languishing refugee camps. united nations secretary general antonio guterres described situation "catastrophic". duterte's spokesman said two 10 asean leaders brought rohingya issue plenary meeting monday, suu kyi assured group crisis addressed. spokesman also said suu kyi agreed accept humanitarian assistance rohingya, myanmar earlier accused restricting. chairman's statement penultimate draft duterte's "chairman’s statement" - document issued host leader sum results group's discussions - asean leaders briefly tackled rohingya situation matter "disaster resiliency". "we … extended appreciation prompt response delivery relief items northern viet nam flash floods landslides victims, displaced communities marawi city, philippines, well affected communities northern rakhine state, myanmar," statement read. mention issue 26-page document, tackled regional issues, including north korea's nuclear weapons programme, tensions south china sea, well "terrorism extremism". meanwhile, document contained two paragraphs illegal drug problem member countries worked together efforts solve it. was, however, mention duterte's campaign illegal drugs victims. document's segment human rights tackled neither rohingya crisis drug war. suu kyi duterte shake hands summit's opening ceremony [mark r cristino/pool/reuters] 'moral ascendancy' "it's absolute travesty," heydarian said group's silence rohingya. "i think worst thing could happen asean next syria, rohingya crisis biggest humanitarian crisis we're facing right 21st century." duterte's determination protect drug war scrutiny criticism left asean unable speak human rights all, added heydarian. media conference cap chairmanship, duterte blasted canada prime minister justin trudeau, one several world leaders bilateral meetings asean, bringing "human rights, extra-judicial killings rule law" one-on-one duterte - even trudeau said duterte "receptive" "very cordial" it. "it personal official insult. hear cursing," duterte said. "it angers me. foreigner, know exactly happening country." kind talk leaves impossible leader put counterpart task human rights issues, said heydarian. "if chairman asean, philippines, saying say what's happening human rights issues; you're telling world, 'it's none business conduct drug war'; moral ascendancy asean whole tell myanmar treat people better?" consensus, non-interference statement released september asean foreign ministers "humanitarian situation rakhine state" foreshadowed leaders' silence matter. statement, issued philippines foreign affairs secretary alan peter cayetano sidelines united nations general assembly new york, condemned attacks myanmar security forces triggered latest spate violence rakhine - ensuing destruction entire rohingya communities forced flee en masse. malaysia, asean member, disagreed cayetano's document disowned it, saying based "consensus", key asean principle. brunei, cambodia, indonesia, laos, malaysia, myanmar, philippines, singapore, thailand vietnam, comprise asean, agreed never say anything unless "consensus", well never interfere one another's domestic affairs. heydarian said asean's insistence "consensus" "non-interference" constrained group directly addressing crucial matters, settling instead polite impotent rhetoric. source: al jazeera news human rights rohingya asia asia pacific myanmar
renderpagesvideo('5639533893001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); un's international labour organization (ilo) dismissed complaints treatment migrant workers qatar welcomed nation's commitment improve plight. rights body announced wednesday decision follow earlier complaints treatment foreign labour gulf nation. part new draft bill, qatar announced plans introduce minimum wage allow monitoring labour practices trained inspectors last month. issa saad al-nuaimi, qatar's labour minister, said support fund would ensure overdue wages paid workers. {articleguid} "the ilo welcomes commitment qatar engage substantive cooperation organisation promotion protection workers' rights, looks forward successful implementation cooperation programme next three years," ilo director general guy ryder said. reviewing complaints lodged 2014 qatar's failure maintain legal framework sufficient protect rights migrant workers, ilo welcomed "positive change" country. "the transformation complaint real commitment government qatar make positive change ground workers encouraging development," said luc cortebeeck, chairperson ilo's governing body. "we celebrate moment qatar two million migrant workers," added. 'historic day' qatar come scrutiny treatment foreign workers countries india, nepal bangladesh, process building new infrastructure run-up hosting 2022 football world cup. provide legal protection workers, qatar signed 36 bilateral agreements countries draws foreign workforce. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5442016081001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5442016081001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: qatar’s khalifa stadium ready 2022 world cup (1:54) labour minister nuaimi welcomed ilo's decision cancel complaints. "this [decision] clearly states degree qatar committed international labour standards," told al jazeera. "it also proves qatar caring labour rights." al jazeera's jamal elshayyal, reporting swiss city geneva, said wednesday's development "major breakthrough region". "much countries particularly gcc depend heavily work essentially blood, sweat tears millions workers," said. last year, qatari government introduced new labour law aimed making easier migrant workers change jobs leave country. law implemented ease requirements work sponsorship system, known kafala, currently requires foreign workers obtain employer's consent travel abroad switch jobs. general-secretary international trade union confederation, sharan burrow, one vocal critics qatar's policies past years, urged gulf nations, like saudi arabia united arab emirates (uae) "to follow lead qatar". "this historic day," told al jazeera. "we look forward world cup worker's rights support." 'still vulnerable' response ilo's announcement, rights group humanity united stressed migrant workers qatar still vulnerable exploitation, ilo keep watching plight. "despite decision close complaint qatar, migrant workers still vulnerable forced labor exploitation legal social structures," rola abimourched, manager investments humanity united, said statement. "we believe real improvement happen workers qatari government removes restrictions workers' mobility, improves complaints mechanisms ensures workers face retaliation reporting violations, protects workers, including covered labor law, domestic workers. "the technical cooperation agreement ilo qatari government encouraging, progress workers promises turned actions," added. abimourched urged ilo, governing body, key member states monitor situation qatar "to ensure government fully implements reforms committed takes additional steps protect workers". estimated two million migrant workers qatar. majority hail india, nepal, bangladesh pakistan. source: al jazeera news middle east qatar human rights qatar 2022
djamel ameziane, 50, says canada played role abuse suffered guantanamo. [courtesy icrc] djamel ameziane wants dignity back. 50-year-old former prisoner says that's filed multi-million-dollar lawsuit canadian government, alleging complicit detention torture us-run military prison guantanamo bay , cuba. ameziane detained without charge trial guantanamo early 2002 december 2013, forcibly returned native algeria , despite fears safety. "i want people know happened me, want know canada partly blame," ameziane told al jazeera email interview. "i don't think canada involved torture anyone else." $40-million claim statement claim filed ontario superior court november 6 seen al jazeera, ameziane seeking damages totalling almost $40m. 1995 2000, ameziane lived canada , seeking political asylum fleeing algeria bloody civil war early 1990s. {articleguid} alleges canadian officials exchanged information us counterparts contributed mistreatment prison camp. ameziane's canadian lawyer, nathan whitling, told al jazeera ameziane seeking public inquiry trial look canada's role happened. "we want canada held account," whitling said. "we want role whole process brought light." spokesperson canada's department public safety said government could comment ameziane's case since courts. however, ottawa issued new directives september aim "to avoid complicity mistreatment torture foreign entities" going forward, scott bardsley told al jazeera email. directives strengthen rules overseeing canada's spy agency (csis), national police force (rcmp) border security agency (cbsa). "canada must avoid knowingly contributing mistreatment foreign entities," bardsley said. road guantanamo canadian officials began collecting information ameziane members muslim community montreal late 1999, lawsuit alleges, shared information us intelligence officials. information-sharing process began ahmed ressam, another algerian man living montreal time, caught stash explosives boot car crossed canada-us border. became known "millenium plot", ressam planned attack los angeles airport later sentenced 37 years prison. asylum request canada rejected 2000, ameziane said went afghanistan feared would happen returned algeria. however, fighting began 2001 us invasion, fled pakistan . captured local police handed us forces "in exchange bounty," lawsuit states. ameziane says shipped us military base kandahar; claims beaten custody . finally, february 2002, flown - "hooded, shackled chained floor" plane "for duration 15-hour journey" - guantanamo. canadian interrogations held guantanamo: lawsuit according whitling, canada's cooperation us intelligence officials heightened aftermath 9/11 attacks. "canada willing participate torture interrogation system us created guantanamo," said. "and years since then, it's gradually made clearer clearer constituted serious human rights violations canada complicit us everything happened there." canada reached $24m settlement last march role played detention torture three men syria egypt early 2000s publicly apologised abdullah almalki, ahmad abou-elmaati muayyed nureddin. ameziane's case, canadian officials travelled guantanamo interrogate february may 2003, according claim. canadian officials received used information us counterparts obtained ameziane use torture, lawsuit alleges. information obtained canadian officials interrogations ameziane also handed back us used subsequent "abusive interrogation sessions" prison, states. canadian officials interrogated omar khadr trips, said whitling. canadian-born khadr, detained age 15 afghanistan spent decade guantanamo, awarded $8m settlement canadian government july. ameziane says interrogated hundreds times us officials. according claim, beaten, exposed severe cold, deprived sunlight fresh air, deprived sleep, prevented exercising religion detention. one occasion, jaw dislocated guards slammed head onto floor cell. pepper-sprayed waterboarded several times, feet chained floor interrogation room. "he left writhing pain shivering cold air air conditioner, clothes soaked body burning effect pepper spray," lawsuit states. demanding us apology, compensation ameziane also waiting decision claim first filed 2008 inter-american commission human rights, human rights body part organization american states. there, ameziane asked ruling would call us government provide financial compensation, access medical care public apology, among measures. new york-based lawyer, wells dixon, told al jazeera commission issued precautionary judgment 2008 ordering us return ameziane algeria. us anyway, violation order. {articleguid} dixon said case also asks commission push oas member states resettle three dozen men remain guantanamo but, like ameziane, want repatriated home countries fear persecution. september, 41 men remained detention guantanamo. "it's critically important oas member states remain involved resettle men like this. it's late ameziane, it's late men [in guantanamo]," dixon said. dixon added "real unknown" today donald trump's administration. last month, trump said would consider sending suspect deadly vehicular attack manhattan, uzbek national sayfullo saipov, guantanamo. campaign president, trump also promised "load [guantanamo] bad dudes". dixon said trump "total disregard human rights [and] visceral hatred people muslim". "what administration vis-a-vis detainees?" asked. getting 'dignity back' part, ameziane told al jazeera he's "literally struggling survive" since returned algeria four years ago. currently lives near-homelessness "can't find job guantanamo stigma", said. also still suffers depression, nightmares chronic migraine headaches "as result [his] torture guantanamo," said. said hopes lawsuit canada help pay medical care ultimately, "get [his] dignity back". source: al jazeera news human rights guantanamo bay canada united states us & canada
people walk louvre abu dhabi united arab emirates week [satish kumar/reuters] human rights group described new louvre abu dhabi museum "tainted" gross rights violations committed migrant workers building site. immense project, took 10 years build tune $1bn, officially inaugurated french president emmanuel macron . open public saturday. benedicte jeannerod, france director human rights watch (hrw), said many consider museum "technical aesthetic feat", building holds unpleasant back story. "it accomplished cost human suffering, country whose rulers appear still widely despise human rights suppress critical voice," said. worker rights abuse rights group banned entering country 2014, hrw published three reports construction sites saadiyat island, including one louvre abu dhabi. reports documented range human rights violations migrant workers, make 90 percent united arab emirates ' private workforce. {articleguid} recent report, published february 2015, shed light "unsafe working conditions leading workplace accidents deaths, passport confiscations, appalling living housing conditions, extremely low wages, sometimes non-payment wages". moreover, workers held hostage "kafala", notorious sponsorship system grants employers extreme powers employees. workers arbitrarily deported exercising right strike, barred re-entering uae. jeannerod acknowledged that, international pressure, "positive legislative developments" reformation kafala system new workers' rights rulings enacted , remains difficult measure progress. "it remains extremely difficult assess impact laws migrant workers' lives working conditions," said. "the crackdown civil society severe activists silenced workers dare voice concerns." new louvre emirati government busy transforming saadiyat island, area 27 square miles, new cultural hub. island already home campus new york university, and, addition louvre, two major international museums, including guggenheim. {articleguid} according deal made france uae 2007, louvre paris agreed attach name new museum abu dhabi reported $520m. new louvre, designed french architect jean nouvel, 600 artworks around world permanent display, 300 loaned france. addition 55 rooms 23 permanent galleries, also children's museum research centre. one exceptional features museum's building latticed dome, made 7,850 aluminium stars weighs 7,700 tonnes. entrance tickets priced $16.80 sold out. source: al jazeera news human rights human rights watch arts & culture uae middle east
myanmar's military spared rohingya violence, including young children, witnesses say [cathal mcnaughton/reuters] myanmar military report said rohingya civilians killed months-long crackdown "absurd" international criminal court must launch investigation, human rights group said. myanmar's army released report late monday found "no deaths innocent people" deadly attacks rohingya rebels several police posts northern rakhine state august 25 sparked brutal military campaign. army said 376 "terrorists" killed fighting august attacks. crackdown led mass exodus 600,000 rohingya civilians fled predominantly buddhist country neighbouring bangladesh . many survivors squalid camps inside bangladesh - described world's worst refugee crisis - reported mass killings, torture, rape rohingya children, women, men. {articleguid} "the burmese military's absurd effort absolve mass atrocities underscores independent international investigation needed establish facts identify responsible," said human rights watch's brad adams statement tuesday . "the burmese authorities shown can't won't credibly investigate themselves." united nations called majority-muslim rohingya myanmar world's persecuted minority. jeremy laurence, un spokesman, told news conference tuesday investigators bangladesh found ample evidence killing torture civilians myanmar. "our findings quite clear happening," laurence said. "what found took place rakhine state… textbook example ethnic cleansing, murder, rape, assault, killings, torture. heard [this] people… again." human rights watch said time international criminal court hague investigate myanmar's authorities. {articleguid} "the military's grave crimes committed impunity exactly international criminal court created for," adams said. myanmar military's report denunciation human rights watch came us secretary state rex tillerson arrives myanmar wednesday. demands growing united states washington impose economic travel sanctions military entities control rohingya crisis. us president donald trump said tuesday backed "safe voluntary return" refugees. "the united states supports efforts end violence, ensure accountability atrocities committed," white house statement quoted president saying. "we welcome commitments government myanmar ready support implementation rakhine recommendations." 101 east rohingya exodus function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5640320980001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news human rights rohingya myanmar bangladesh asia pacific
mohammed bin nayef saudi arabia's crown prince removal june [file: reuters] mohammed bin nayef, saudi arabia's ex-crown prince removed next line throne june, reportedly become latest royal family member targeted kingdom's expanding anti-corruption crackdown . according reuters news agency wall street journal, bank accounts linked mohammed bin nayef immediate relatives frozen saudi authorities. reports wednesday cited sources "familiar matter". reuters report also carried saudi state-owned media. freezing mohammed bin nayef's accounts came saudi authorities launched new arrest campaign part widening purge began saturday, according reuters. dozens royals, government officials influential entrepreneurs already detained, facing number allegations, including money laundering bribery. {articleguid} among held 11 princes, four ministers several former ministers, seen unprecedented crackdown shaken kingdom. meanwhile, number domestic bank accounts frozen result purge 1,700 increasing, according reports. high-profile detentions steps latest series policies widely seen effort crown prince mohammed bin salman assert power country political business elite. saturday, king salman bin abdulaziz al saud announced son, crown prince, would oversee newly formed anti-graft commission would purge country corruption. prince alwaleed bin talal, billionaire businessman owns investment firm, kingdom holding, among held. list detainees also included senior ministers recently sacked, prince mitaab bin abdullah, head national guard, adel faqih, economy minister. mohammed bin salman replaced cousin, mohammed bin nayef, kingdom's crown prince june. mohammed bin nayef made first confirmed public appearance since removal funeral tuesday prince mansour bin muqrin al saud, deputy governor asir province, according saudi media. mansour bin muqrin died helicopter crash sunday. cause given crash. 'rights concerns' wednesday, us-based human rights watch (hrw) said statement "mass arrests" carried saudi arabia raised human rights concerns. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5637657096001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5637657096001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: trump praises bin salman's political purge, saudi stocks fall (2:49) pageloadedsuccessfully "the middle-of-the-night simultaneous establishment new corruption body mass arrests corruption raise concerns saudi authorities detained people en masse without outlining basis detentions," sarah leah whitson, middle east director hrw, said. "while saudi media framing measures mohammad bin salman's move corruption, mass arrests suggest may internal power politics," added. rights group noted arbitrary detention contravention international human rights law, demanded arrested informed "specific grounds arrest" " able fairly contest detention independent impartial judge". "saudi authorities disclosed specific reasons detention dozens people since mid-september. detentions fit pattern human rights violations peaceful advocates dissidents, including harassment, intimidation, smear campaigns, travel bans, detention, prosecution," statement added. source: al jazeera news agencies saudi arabia mohammed bin salman human rights watch human rights middle east
trial could send independent journalist alexei wood six others prison decades started wednesday. wood, 37, travelled hometown san antonio, texas, washington, dc, cover anti-fascist bloc demonstration inauguration us president donald trump january 20, imagine would wind slew felonies . day, wood, livestreamed march facebook page, kettled arrested police 230 others, including protesters, bystanders, legal observers medics. "i feel righteous innocence," told al jazeera day trial, "but lot riding it: future journalism protesting." weight charges trial, wood forced put journalism career hold. "i don't time energy focus try make sense world little bits communicate that," explained. "i enough time focus exact situation right now. it's definitely impacted me." wood six co-defendants first group nearly 200 people still facing charges related rioting property damage alleged participation inauguration day protests. tens thousands people descended capital january 20 protest trump's first day president. anti-fascist bloc march, police clashed protesters carried mass arrests swept demonstrators, bystanders, legal observers, journalists medics. 230 people subsequently charged felonies. {articleguid} handful protesters destroyed property, smashing windows atms made way capital's streets. us attorney's office dc says damage totalled $100,000. april 27, superior court dc returned superseding indictment added additional charges 212 defendants, three previously charged. many facing felony charges later pleaded significantly reduced charges, others charges dropped altogether. 190 people still slated go trial. "most days, seems clearly absurd obviously political. days, machine grind down," wood said. time publication, us attorney's office dc responded al jazeera's request comment. 'a partial win' separate batch defendants, head court december, felony charges reduced, facing three misdemeanours. although felony charges reduced everyone, bulk defendants could still end jail 60 years. "the reduction charges second trial group first seems line arbitrary nature rest case," sam menefee-libey, activist dc legal posse support group, told al jazeera telephone wednesday's court date. "it's partial win, lot people still facing lot time behind bars, won't quit everyone's free," said. "it's important fight even harder order get charges dropped. charges dropped, way get solidarity." defendants, activists watchdogs accuse government stacking charges defendants order distract alleged police misconduct day protest. {articleguid} june, american civil liberties union (aclu) filed lawsuit behalf four plaintiffs detained anti-fascist bloc march january 20. aclu lawsuit says police used "overwhelming unlawful force" "non-violent demonstrators largely peaceful demonstrations law-breaking" occurred. allegations lawsuit include claim police issue adequate dispersal warnings demonstration, unnecessarily deployed chemical agents - pepper spray - people already surrounded, executed forceful rectal examinations detainees. washington, dc office police complaints issued report earlier year said city's police department may violated policies. called independent investigation controversial group close ties police. 'just absurd' dylan petrohilos, 28-year-old defendant could still go prison 61 years, said case "just absurd". "it's fact people may spend rest lives jail this," told al jazeera telephone. "the reality mass arrests happened without probable cause proper dispersal warnings." petrohilos described arrests part broader crackdown protests across country. september, following not-guilty verdict white police officer killed anthony lamar harris, 24-year-old african american, 2011, protests erupted st louis, missouri. police arrested 300 people 18 days. many dealt rioting charges, felonies others misdemeanours. {articleguid} 600 people charged alleged involvement protests last year dakota access pipeline standing rock, north dakota, demonstrators pushed back described plans steal native american land. charged misdemeanours, facing felonies. referring charges inauguration day, st louis standing rock protests, petrohilos said: "there concerted effort crack rights organising dissent us right now." alexei wood, also believes government hopes create chilling effect protesters journalists. "this nothing innocence - either survive system don't," said. "it's speculation could care less broken windows," wood concluded. "the government wants blood. political climate anti-press, doesn't surprise i'm here." source: al jazeera news human rights protests donald trump politics united states
sixteen-year-old annica bhar six months pregnant. husband year-and-a-half murdered [showkat shafi/al jazeera] mid-day. humidity unbearable. stench stale sweat hangs air. small impoverished hindu community bangladeshi port city cox's bazar , telling stories 400,000 rohingya fled neighbouring myanmar. 16-year-old girl - one minority rohingya hindu - wailing, grieving murdered husband. six months pregnant. none refugees pays much attention. busy sorrows, desperate attempts survive. local men gather, surrounding her. take phones film photograph cries. feel sickened, disgusted scene, idea people feel detached suffering would choose record rather offer comfort. feel sick surely i, one hundreds journalists descended upon refugee camps here, doing. photographed filmed images desperation sorrow unlike witnessed before: mother whose ear hacked 10-year-old daughter lost every member family, four-year-old whose parents killed, little boy cradling unconscious baby sister father murdered became separated mother. story seemingly tragic last. rohingya boy cradles unconscious younger sister. father killed became separated mother fled myanmar [showkat shafi/al jazeera] wonder whether journalists 16-year-old widow story. opportunity prove journalistic credentials. chance capture definitive image suffering despair somehow encapsulate suffering despair see around us - crammed every square foot city - least secure likes television rating points. annica bhar looks cameras hope, hope seen others look mine. she, like them, allows us photograph desperate moments, hope cameras might offer relief. not. days, leave return comfortable life. leave misery, disease mud behind. annica rohingya refugees remain. stay begging tussling little aid arrives, distributed haphazardly trucks still strong enough grab weaker among lose out. stay epidemics set overcrowded unsanitary camps, torrential rains pound flimsy shelters. wonder good pictures all. source: al jazeera news author showkat shafi showkat shafi digital journalist specialising photojournalism @ showkatshafi rohingya humanitarian crises asia
rohingya they? from? persecuted? many fled? myanmar say? bangladesh say? international community say? arsa? rohingya? rohingya often described "the world's persecuted minority". ethnic group, majority muslim, lived centuries majority buddhist myanmar . currently, 1.1 million rohingya live southeast asian country. rohingya speak rohingya ruaingga, dialect distinct others spoken rakhine state throughout myanmar. considered one country's 135 official ethnic groups denied citizenship myanmar since 1982, effectively rendered stateless. read more: 'lost found booth' reunites rohingya families nearly rohingya myanmar live western coastal state rakhine allowed leave without government permission. one poorest states country ghetto-like camps lack basic services opportunities. due ongoing violence persecution, hundreds thousands rohingya fled neighbouring countries either land boat course many decades. rohingya from? muslims lived area known myanmar since early 12th century, according many historians rohingya groups. arakan rohingya national organisation said, "rohingyas living arakan time immemorial," referring area known rakhine. 100 years british rule (1824-1948), significant amount migration labourers known myanmar today's india bangladesh . british administered myanmar province india , migration considered internal, according human rights watch (hrw). migration labourers viewed negatively majority native population. independence, government viewed migration took place british rule "illegal, basis refuse citizenship majority rohingya," hrw said 2000 report . led many buddhists consider rohingya bengali, rejecting term rohingya recent invention, created political reasons. un called current exodus rohingya 'the urgent refugee emergency world' [showkat shafi/al jazeera] persecuted? aren't recognised? shortly myanmar's independence british 1948, union citizenship act passed, defining ethnicities could gain citizenship. according 2015 report international human rights clinic yale law school, rohingya included. act, however, allow whose families lived myanmar least two generations apply identity cards. rohingya initially given identification even citizenship generational provision. time, several rohingya also served parliament. pictures: rohingya refugees search shelter bangladesh 1962 military coup myanmar, things changed dramatically rohingya. citizens required obtain national registration cards. rohingya, however, given foreign identity cards, limited jobs educational opportunities could pursue obtain. 1982, new citizenship law passed, effectively rendered rohingya stateless. law, rohingya recognised one country's 135 ethnic groups. law established three levels citizenship. order obtain basic level (naturalised citizenship), must proof person's family lived myanmar prior 1948, well fluency one national languages. many rohingya lack paperwork either unavailable denied them. result law, rights study, work, travel, marry, practice religion access health services continue restricted. rohingya cannot vote even jump citizenship test hoops, identify "naturalised" opposed rohingya, limits placed entering certain professions like medicine, law running office. since 1970s, number crackdowns rohingya rakhine state forced hundreds thousands flee neighbouring bangladesh, well malaysia , thailand southeast asian countries. crackdowns, refugees often reported rape, torture, arson murder myanmar security forces. read more: month misery myanmar's rohingya killings nine border police october 2016, troops started pouring villages rakhine state. government blamed called fighters armed rohingya group. killings led security crackdown villages rohingya lived. crackdown, government troops accused array human rights abuses, including extrajudicial killing, rape arson - allegations government denied. november 2016, un official accused government carrying "ethnic cleansing" rohingya. first time accusation made. april 2013, example, hrw said myanmar conducting campaign ethnic cleansing rohingya. government consistently denied accusations. recently, myanmar's military imposed crackdown country's rohingya population police posts army base attacked late august. residents activists described scenes troops firing indiscriminately unarmed rohingya men, women children. government, however, said nearly 100 people killed armed men arakan rohingya salvation army (arsa) launched raid police outposts region. since violence erupted, rights groups documented fires burning least 10 areas myanmar's rakhine state. 500,000 people fled violence, thousands trapped no-man's land two countries, according un refugee agency (unhcr). un also said hundreds civilians tried enter bangladesh pushed back patrols. many also detained forcibly returned myanmar. myanmar recognise rohingya ethnic group [showkat shafi/al jazeera] many rohingya fled myanmar gone? since late 1970s, nearly one million rohingya fled myanmar due widespread persecution. according recently available data united nations may, 168,000 rohingya fled myanmar since 2012. following violence broke last year, 87,000 rohingya fled bangladesh october 2016 july 2017, according international organization migration. read more: 'i want take last breath without fear attacks' many rohingya also risked lives trying get malaysia boat across bay bengal andaman sea. 2012 2015, 112,000 made dangerous journey. prior violence began august, un estimated many 420,000 rohingya refugees southeast asia. additionally, said around 120,000 internally displaced rohingya. since violence myanmar's northwest began, 500,000 rohingya fled bangladesh, unhcr said . added 1,000 people, mostly rohingya, may killed myanmar. aung san suu kyi myanmar government say rohingya? state chancellor aung san suu kyi, de facto leader myanmar, refused really discuss plight rohingya. aung san suu kyi government recognise rohingya ethnic group blamed violence rakhine, subsequent military crackdowns, call "terrorists". nobel peace prize laureate control military criticised failure condemn indiscriminate force used troops, well stand rights one million rohingya myanmar. opinion: aung san suu kyi's inexcusable silence government also repeatedly rejected accusations abuses. february 2017, un published report found government troops "very likely" committed crimes humanity since renewed military crackdowns began october 2016. time, government directly address findings report said "the right defend country lawful means" "increasing terrorist activities", adding domestic investigation enough. september 2016, aung san suu kyi entrusted former un chief kofi annan finding ways heal long-standing divisions region. many welcomed commission findings, released august, azeem ibrahim, senior fellow center global policy, argued way aung san suu kyi "pacify global public opinion try demonstrate international community resolve issue". annan given mandate investigate specific cases human rights abuses, rather one long-term economic development, education healthcare. reporter's notebook: look us hope, document despair setting commission, aung san suu kyi's government said would abide findings. commission urged government end highly militarised crackdown neighbourhoods rohingya live, well scrap restrictions movement citizenship. following release august report, government welcomed commission's recommendations said would give report "full consideration view carrying recommendations fullest extent ... line situation ground". latest round violence, aung san suu kyi condemned "huge iceberg misinformation" crisis, without mentioning rohingya fled bangladesh. september 19, gave televised address , condemning "all human rights violations" rakhine. said myanmar ready "at time" verify status fled violence last month. specify would qualified return elaborate verification process would work. speech criticised rohingya refugees , well activists accused government "burying heads sand". government often restricted access northern rakhine states journalists aid workers. aung san suu kyi's office also accused aid groups helping considers "terrorists". opinion: myanmar needs get serious peace january, yanghee lee, un special rapporteur human rights myanmar, said denied access certain parts rakhine allowed speak rohingya pre-approved government. country also denied visas members un probe investigating violence alleged abuses rakhine. bangladesh say rohingya? half million rohingya refugees living mostly makeshift camps bangladesh. majority remain unregistered. bangladesh considers crossed borders living outside camps "illegally infiltrated" country. bangladesh often tried prevent rohingya refugees crossing border. read more: name arba khatun, rohingya late january, country resurrected plan relocate tens thousands rohingya refugees myanmar remote island prone flooding also called "uninhabitable" rights groups. plan, originally introduced 2015, authorities would move undocumented myanmar nationals thengar char bay bengal. rights groups decried proposal, saying island completely floods monsoon season. un also called forced relocation "very complex controversial". recently, bangladesh's foreign minister labelled violence rohingya myanmar "a genocide". country's national commission human rights also said considering "pressing trial myanmar, myanmar army international tribunal" charges genocide. bangladesh's prime minister sheikh hasina visited rohingya refugee camp september called un international community pressure myanmar's government allow return hundreds thousands rohingya refugees. read more: bangladesh medics struggle cope rohingya influx said bangladesh would offer refugees temporary shelter aid, myanmar soon "take nationals back". rohingya refugees bangladesh told al jazeera government's aid thus far inadequate, many saying haven't received kind government help. refugees bangladesh banned leaving overcrowded border areas. police check posts surveillance set key transit points stop rohingya travelling parts country. rohingya effectively stateless decades [showkat shafi/al jazeera] international community say rohingya? international community labelled rohingya "most persecuted minority world". un, well several rights groups amnesty international human rights watch , consistently decried treatment rohingya myanmar neighbouring countries. un said "very likely" military committed grave human rights abuses rakhine may amount war crimes, allegations government denies. opinion: international pressure save rohingya march, un adopted resolution set independent, international mission investigate alleged abuses. stopped short calling commission inquiry, un's highest level investigation. un investigators must provide verbal update september full report next year findings. rights groups criticised government's reluctance accept un investigators. human rights watch warned myanmar's government risked getting bracketed "pariah states" like north korea syria allow un investigate alleged crimes. read more: myanmar - un probe 'can aggravate' rakhine tension response latest round violence, un secretary-general antonio guterres warned risk ethnic cleansing, calling aung san suu kyi country's security forces end violence. early september, guterres also warned looming "humanitarian catastrophe" violence end. un human rights chief zeid ra'ad al hussein urged myanmar end "brutal security operation" rohingya rakhine, calling "textbook example ethnic cleansing". un officials said completely supported findings advisory commission, led kofi annan, urged government fulfil recommendations. opinion: rohingya crisis role oic arakan rohingya salvation army? arakan rohingya salvation army (arsa), formerly known al-yaqeen faith movement, released statement new name march 2017, saying obligated "defend, salvage protect [the] rohingya community". group said would "with best capacities legitimate right international law defend line principle self defence". group considered "terrorist" organisation myanmar government. march statement, arsa added "not associate terrorist group across world" "not commit form terrorism civilian[s] regardless religious ethnic origin". statement also said: "we […] declare loud clear defensive attacks aimed oppressive burmese regime accordance international norms principles demands fulfilled." group claimed responsibility attack police posts army base rakhine state. according government nearly 400 people killed, majority members arsa. rights groups, however, say hundreds civilians killed security forces. rights group fortify rights said documented fighters arsa "are also accused killing civilians - suspected government 'informants' - recent days months, well preventing men boys flee maungdaw township". september 9, group declared month-long unilateral ceasefire rakhine enable aid groups address humanitarian crisis area. "arsa strongly encourages concerned humanitarian actors resume humanitarian assistance victims humanitarian crisis, irrespective ethnic religious background ceasefire period," group said statement, adding calls myanmar's military also temporarily lay arms. according international crisis group, arsa ties rohingya living saudi arabia. myanmar government formally categorised group "terrorist" organisation august 25. source: al jazeera human rights rohingya asia humanitarian crises myanmar
arba khatun, 50 [katie arnold/al jazeera] arba khatun , 50, comes rakhine state, myanmar , fled weeks ago. "my name arba khatun 50 years old. crisis, lived fairly good life: domestic animals, farm, cultivated lots different crops like rice coconuts. somehow, managed. husband died 15 years ago, lived son family. younger, used love working farm, old, son work. remember day was, woken washing face military came farm stole animals. fired gun bullet hit stomach. luckily, go deep, painful bleeding lot son took nearby doctor. returned whole village burned ground. son carried mountain, found family. slept three days, carried bangladesh . could bring anything us son carrying wife carrying two children - difficult journey took us 12 days. heard problems border, crossed easily. happy bangladesh safe here. wound healing walking around lot more, too. could bring food us nothing eat - received support, hungry. son would ask world help us get country back, don't want go again, never safe myanmar, need best bangladesh." *as told katie arnold kutupalong new shelter camp near cox's bazar, bangladesh. *this interview edited clarity. read related article find myanmar's rohingya plight myanmar's rohingya 400,000 rohingya , mainly women children, fled bangladesh recent weeks result indiscriminate violence civilian populations carried myanmar army. un human rights organisations warned mass exodus following killings, rapes, burned villages signs "ethnic cleansing" , pleading international community pressure aung san suu kyi government end violence. "the situation seems textbook example ethnic cleansing," un human rights chief zeid ra'ad al-hussein said monday, september 11. interactive: refugee settlements near cox's bazar bangladesh maps [al jazeera] source: al jazeera author katie arnold @ kate_arno rohingya humanitarian crises profiles rohingya asia
nasima, khatun, 60 [katie arnold/al jazeera] nasima khatun, 60, comes rakhine state, myanmar , fled weeks ago. "my name nasima khatun 60 years old. lived quite life crisis, husband fisherman three daughters - lived well rohingya . although encountered pressure military, face problems regards food shelter. military started firing guns village ran different directions. hiding jungle someone told husband shot. felt helpless afraid. military took village could return bring back body, leave quickly move bangladesh . travelled daughters neighbours village, could carry anything us ate drank whatever found way. one day, passed abandoned shop looted - real food ate 10-day journey; hungry. cried cried whole way neighbours took pity paid boat trip across bangladesh. sad leave myanmar, lost husband there, house, land everything own. we've managed build shelter here, local bangladeshis supported us food donations. opportunity earn money, work us do. type future don't money? everyone wants go back myanmar don't think ever possible, never safe again. go back we'll either tortured killed. believe world watching situation. request empathise - world hears stories sorrow death imagines would feel shoes." *as told katie arnold kutupalong new shelter camp near cox's bazar, bangladesh. *this interview edited clarity. plight myanmar's rohingya 400,000 rohingya , mainly women children, fled bangladesh recent weeks result indiscriminate violence civilian populations carried myanmar army. un human rights organisations warned mass exodus following killings, rapes, burned villages signs "ethnic cleansing" , pleading international community pressure aung san suu kyi government end violence. "the situation seems textbook example ethnic cleansing," un human rights chief zeid ra'ad al-hussein said monday, september 11. interactive: refugee settlements near cox's bazar bangladesh maps [al jazeera] read find myanmar's rohingya source: al jazeera author katie arnold @ kate_arno rohingya profiles rohingya humanitarian crises asia
caracas, venezuela - guaire river sewer venezuelan capital, caracas. city's wastewater empties river, turning brown filling air nauseating stench. since venezuela 's economic crisis began here, sewage-filled water, venezuelans search means survival, way earn little money feed families. every day, groups venezuelans sift rubbish excrement dumped river hope finding jewellery may fallen somebody's drain ended sewer. isn't river people scavenge. francisco fajardo highway downstream. six people live bridge amid noise fumes passing cars. l ike many venezuelans living caracas, forced search daily food rubbish. late afternoons, supermarkets close restaurants throw away leftovers, go search them, scavenging bins hope finding something eat. find latest updates crisis venezuela
deserted streets raqqa bear witness fight almost over. almost one year passed since launch military campaign syrian province, claimed islamic state iraq levant ( isil , known isis) group's capital. sdf, backed us troops ground, air support coalition thick final offensive. sdf group created led mostly ypg kurdish militias integrated arab fighters fighters minorities. without great number men armoured vehicles, sdf managed quickly take control areas city. civilians fleeing city since offensive began, feared almost 1,500 people still trapped national hospital stadium, surrounded sdf forces. areas yet taken sdf hit daily air raids shelling attacks. isil defends position snipers occasional shelling, front-line commanders fear area rigged ieds.
cox's bazar, bangladesh - since august 25, 600,000 rohingya refugees crossed bangladesh's southeastern districts myanmar . half women, 60 percent girls 18. faced treacherous journey across border, fleeing violence northern rakhine state myanmar. story follows laila, five months pregnant, two children. laila arrived bangladesh late september. spent night island, taking shelter local school, travelling boat mainland bangladesh, fare paid locals aiding refugees . laila received food piece tarpaulin transported balukhali camp, arrived dark.
migrants aware war yemen decide embark journey yemeni coast anyway [reuters/abduljabbar zeyad] conflict raging yemen since 2015, yet people somalia , ethiopia eritrea remain undeterred thread perilous routes encounter dangerous conditions get there. paraphrase somali-british poet warsan shire , continue flee lands, home won't let stay. dangerous journey made clear last month, boat carrying 150 somali refugees attacked helicopter military ship near yemeni port hodeidah. least 42 killed. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5366906171001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5366906171001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: yemen refugee boat attack - survivors speak (2:07) pageloadedsuccessfully since 2013, nearly 290,000 refugees migrants landed yemeni coast. nearly 80 percent ethiopians, rest somalis. journey yemen hope using transit point, others look stay yemen, often unaware dangers. january 2006 april 2016, 700,000 persons reportedly crossed horn africa yemen, somalis mostly staying yemen refugees ethiopians travelling onwards saudi arabia gulf countries . people horn still trying reach conflict-ridden country done stop embarking dangerous journey? awareness doesn't change decisions ethiopian state emergency declared october 2016 continues fuel outward displacement, ethiopian asylum seekers interviewed yemen, increasingly referring unrest key reason migration country. somalis cited number reasons migrating including economic opportunities, tribal conflict, poverty hardship conflict government al-shabab . two reasons attempting journey people horn share sense responsibility families positive perceptions migration. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351916554001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5351916554001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: what's causing famine africa? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully common smuggling route yemen starts djibouti's coast. asylum seekers, especially ethiopians, arriving djibouti aware ongoing conflict yemen, think affect them. think ongoing conflict resulting lack rule law, allow disembark transit yemen, easily without stopped local authorities. mix misinformation brokers smugglers, political reasons migration success stories seen social media heard community grapevine significant drivers migration, even migrants information conflict yemen. arrive djibouti, many face shortages water food resort begging working menial jobs pay journey yemen. perilous routes run well-coordinated networks smugglers. smuggler networks point embarkation djibouti disembarkation yemen often coordinated terms sharing information boats would set arrive. asylum seekers land yemen, abducted taken smuggling dens weeks end, pay extortion fees secure release. unable pay, beaten, raped, tortured put work eventually released. oftentimes smugglers would recapture travelling north release. threat abduction kidnapping ransom remains significant moving, particularly ethiopian nationals, perceived able pay ransoms readily somalis. awareness campaigns enough various agencies campaigning raise awareness dangers embarking journey yemen. unhcr launched "dangerous crossings" campaign february 2017 featuring song prominent musicians region. song promising various languages region incorporated message "thinking carefully deciding cross yemen" emphasised. somaliland, there's practice informally known "hooyo ha tahriibin" (loosely translated mothers begging sons, primarily, migrate illegally) many people thinking leaving countries tv internet access order see campaign's message? majority receive information primarily communities: friends, families, relatives, churches mosques, radio stations, coffee shop gatherings, et cetera. also likely value opinions people personally known rather celebrities. little relation would-be asylum seekers artists featured campaign. campaign also doesn't give details "dangerous crossings" entail. void practical details real-life examples people expect journey. likelihood campaign trickle-down effect therefore quite slim. therefore, awareness-raising done informal means, using communication channels people receptive to. incorporate local communities, families relatives, returnees, respected elders community figures, church mosque leaders, local radios' journalists editors. possible, viable alternative options also need introduced. somaliland, there's practice informally known "hooyo ha tahriibin" (loosely translated mothers begging sons, primarily, migrate illegally). it's incentive parents purchase cars children attempt get stay find source local income. times, parents intervene sending children universities neighbouring countries. said, efforts unlikely stem migration. long political crises, conflict security issues, economic, environmental social problems persist region, people continue look outwards better prospects. known high percentage new arrivals shores yemen horn every month repeat asylum seekers. approximately 25 percent estimated tried make journey live work yemen move saudi arabia. findings suggest informing people risks awareness-raising campaigns may act deterrent, indicating clear need long-term strategy finding solutions viable alternatives better quality life. awareness campaigns still important allow people make informed decisions equip full understanding lies ahead. idil osman research associate school oriental african studies (soas). she's currently working research project called research evidence facility that's examining root causes regular irregular migration horn africa. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author idil osman idil osman research associate soas working research project migration horn africa. humanitarian crises africa yemen middle east somalia
iraqi firefighters look bodies buried rubble, civilians killed air strike islamic state triggered massive explosion mosul, march 27 [reuters] past months iraqi army, backed us military, intensified efforts recapture mosul islamic state syria levant ( isil ). given urban context, civilians paying extremely heavy price. indeed, many 200 civilians died mid-march following us air strike mosul al-jadida neighbourhood. rescue teams digging bodies debris days residents described "hellish onslaught" iraqi officials referred worst us-instigated civilian toll iraq since 2003. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5372294560001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5372294560001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > iraq says 200 bodies pulled rubble mosul pageloadedsuccessfully wake mosul massacre, military began investigation went wrong. press conference, defence secretary jim mattis claimed "enemy hides behind women children", intimating isil (also known isis) deploys civilians human shields - egregious crime according international law. mattis ultimately meant, however, us iraqi militaries abide laws war, isil actually one blame high civilian death toll mosul. accusation become common refrain many contexts contemporary urban warfare mere proximity civilians fighting effectively transforms human shields. served justification murder civilians joint russian-syrian regime bombed hospitals aleppo well saudi-led coalition bombings yemen , israel invoked argument time again, war lebanon and, prominently, last two wars gaza . given warfare increasingly taking place urban spaces, civilians living besieged cities framed shields order justify high civilian casualties. indeed, men, women children decide stay homes fray easily converted human shields and, consequence, lose protections bestowed upon civilians international law. like colonial subjects order make sense human shields clauses invoked widely range different actors, need understand intertwined history colonialism international law. past, colonial militaries killed indigenous population, impunity, since colonised considered outside international law's sphere application. first, coalition framed human shields exploited isil. next, coalition dropped leaflets asking residents remain homes. finally, coalition bombed area dropped leaflets. following decolonisation, category civilian distinction civilians combatants extended ex-colonised, guaranteed protection laws war. thus, first time modern history killing civilians africa , middle east previously colonised regions considered crime according international law. accordingly, within current postcolonial era international law applies civilians, even fighting takes place civilian spaces often located ex-colonies. precisely within context must situate emergence legal phrase human shields, since it, effect, helps transform civilians legitimate targets - often along racial lines. 2014 gaza war , instance, israel maintained took necessary precautions reduce palestinian civilian casualties. israeli military legal experts claimed since israeli army dropped leaflets used warning methods order allow civilians time leave, remained either belligerents human shields therefore use lethal violence area violate laws war. indeed, according israel, hamas blame civilian deaths forced palestinian population stay homes fired rockets civilian areas. evisceration civilian events unfolding mosul, however, even complex took place gaza urban settings. true refrain - isil using human shields - invoked us iraqi militaries also actors united nations effort legitimise latest causalities, recent massacre signifies new extremely troubling development. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5373335864001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5373335864001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > civilians caught west mosul crossfire pageloadedsuccessfully according amnesty international's senior crisis response adviser donatella rovera "iraqi authorities repeatedly advised civilians remain home instead fleeing area" targeted coalition, thus clearly indicating "that coalition forces known strikes likely result significant numbers civilian casualties." consequently, mosul's residents left choice, fate determined advance. first, coalition framed human shields exploited isil. next, coalition dropped leaflets asking residents remain homes. finally, coalition bombed area dropped leaflets. toxic mix framing hundreds thousands people living areas controlled isil human shields warning leave homes bombing area, constitutes acceleration evisceration civilian loss protections bestowed upon legal figure laws war. indeed, prominent characteristic "war new barbarians" transformation civilians people killed legally, like colonial subjects old. nicola perugini lecturer school social political science, university edinburgh. neve gordon leverhulme visiting fellow soas, university london. views expressed article authors' necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. authors nicola perugini nicola perugini lecturer school social political science, university edinburgh. @ perugininic neve gordon neve gordon leverhulme visiting fellow soas, university london. @ nevegordon iraq battle mosul middle east humanitarian crises
nepalese government demolished earthquake shelter kathmandu, hundreds sought temporary sanctuary 2015 earthquake [epa/narendra shrestha] april 25, 2015, powerful earthquake killed nearly 9,000 people destroyed 824,000 homes nepal . shortly after, country's reconstruction authority published vision "well-planned resilient settlements prosperous society". clearly falling short goal poor coordination government donors, lack understanding local concerns, dearth civic engagement. two years series earthquakes devastated nepal, barely 5 percent destroyed houses rebuilt, according national reconstruction authority. 800,000 families still houses rebuilt simply disaster. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5099839497001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5099839497001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > nepal festival provides relief earthquake survivors two winters without shelter plenty blame go around slow reconstruction. government bears responsibility failing work ministries responsible distributing reconstruction funds donors slow pay promised funds. immediately disaster, international community came together raise $4.1bn nepal's reconstruction, less half total cost $9bn. funds, plus locally raised revenues, meant disbursed tranches households needing rebuild homes. read more: nepal - maoist dream process, however, onerous. 12 percent money distributed. 544,996 families received first payment, 17 percent total government grants house building. 20,889 homes rebuilt april 6, according national reconstruction authority . progress painfully slow families spent two winters without proper shelter. many live makeshift huts bamboo tents. further, problems ground ignored. shortages water raw materials mean even families receive payouts unable begin building. families travel several days reach local government offices sign compensation promised. others struggle find materials skilled workers build walls. still others waited months inspectors check foundation work next tranche funding released. lack information international community bring lasting change directing support towards citizens local organisations committed solving root problems corruption lack information. part problem lack transparency information general public process reconstruction proceed. whether it's making sure people understand timeline compensation disbursements knowing go help, government must transparent proactive communication. lack information major challenge many nepalis, especially poor disadvantaged. take sunita danuwar example. single woman unable access rebuilding funds citizenship card. married child husband left another woman. nepal, women obtain citizenship cards fathers husbands. neither, sunita left unable access government relief funds. took year assistance nonprofit organisation sunita connect government official helped obtain citizenship card. another man, kabiraj pariyar, waited five months engineer inspect rebuilt foundation could qualify another government grant. wasn't connected advocate able get past first step rebuilding. accountability lab , colleagues set resource called citizen helpdesks gather disseminate details close information gaps government, media, donor organisations communities. grown platform feedback citizens range issues migration, government services education. armed feedback helpdesks groups working nepal, government responsive citizens better understand role recovery. local elections coming encouraging pariyar danuwar found resources help efforts rebuild, process can't burdensome slow. much done biggest step forward may come may, nepal hold local elections first time 20 years. 34,203 directly elected representatives give local communities louder voice national decisions. first priority completing earthquake recovery. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5053447417001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5053447417001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > families nepal’s migrant workers left behind facing struggles pageloadedsuccessfully local elected officials independent authority mobilise local resources make faster decisions. monitor progress reconstruction efforts, provide oversight quality work guard misuse funds. local authority solve problems raised citizens providing space discuss issues within village municipal council. strong connection central government, citizens donor agencies. voices citizen. times crisis, international aid essential help alleviate suffering. international community bring lasting change directing support towards citizens local organisations committed solving root problems corruption lack information. hope next earthquake anniversary rolls around 2018, nepali citizens rebuilt homes hope strive towards prosperous, safe inclusive future. narayan adhikari leads accountability lab's work nepal, including designing incubator trains young people build innovative solutions accountability. 2017 aspen new voices fellow . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author narayan adhikari narayan adhikari leads accountability lab's work nepal. @ yinayan asia nepal humanitarian crises
10.7 million people lake chad basin urgently need urgent support today, writes carius [afolabi sotunde/reuters] poverty, hunger, suffering. terms seem inadequate describe witnessed lake chad basin, west african region host one world's worst - certainly neglected - humanitarian crisis since 1945. crisis west african region, includes parts nigeria , chad, niger, cameroon , left approximately 10.7 million people need immediate humanitarian assistance. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5569410908001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5569410908001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: what's behind world's recent extreme weather events? (25:16) pageloadedsuccessfully human face crisis devastating. visited region part mission world food programme may year, saw desperate hunger, displacement, shocking levels violence insecurity facing civilians, especially women girls. civilians live daily threat rape, kidnappings, killings terrorist attacks. 2.4 million people displaced crisis, simply aren't resources meet basic needs people refugee displaced peoples camps urban centres end up. little nothing left trade vital resources like food, sexual exploitation ( sex-for-food known) become norm, even within camps. report released week un secretary-general affirms witnessed ground lake chad basin. underscores overwhelming scale crisis, need urgent immediate humanitarian responses. doesn't quite go far thinking long-term solution. view, short-term long-term responses simply cannot separated, without detrimental both. order tackle crisis kind sustainability - even short-run - needs thorough understanding caused spiral first place. current crisis triggered violence linked armed groups boko haram , discussions people region, expert consultations convened organisation issue, agree root causes. opinion: lake chad basin - world's neglected crisis rages everyone met agreed situation deep roots long-standing developmental challenges, namely widespread inequality decades political marginalisation communities region. lack investment national governments basic services like health education region meant communities felt alienated left behind. sense, different frustrations felt certain communities uk pre- brexit , us pre- trump , pushing towards extreme alternatives. lake chad basin, time, instilled deep sense exclusion lack trust communities government. backdrop, region also faces significant environmental stress. effective solutions ones address underlying causes crisis, durable sensitive environmental changes brought warming world. frequent prolonged droughts region mean less water arable land go around. predominantly farming pastoral society dependent mighty lake chad survival, less water means fewer jobs also extreme poverty. heard many accounts exacerbated tensions pastoralists, farmers fishers. risk hunger unemployment makes young people vulnerable recruitment non-state armed groups boko haram illicit employment, also feeds armed conflict contributes widespread internal well cross-border displacement. clear: climate change create terrorists, turn law-abiding citizens criminals. warming world acts threat multiplier , worsening existing risks making harder work solutions. social stability demands food water. resources become increasingly scarce, could see communities become increasingly desperate. young people jobs available? choose join militant group like boko haram, offer consistent salary calories recruit farming fishing villages. farmers spoke explained wheat harvest particularly dangerous time boko haram insurgents come loot harvest order feed soldiers. boko haram also provide access services education, absence functioning schools trained teachers, brings eager parents children influence. everyone joins armed groups, though alternatives still positive. others may take petty crime. violent crime. women girls increasingly pushed prostitution survive. opinion: solutions tumultuous times ongoing emergencies - hunger, violence, breakdown law order - aren't tragic coincidence. rather, complex interplay many factors create conditions social collapse suffering. considering factors, climate change cannot ignored, exacerbates worst catalysts crisis fuels fragility inflamed region. un strives raise funds coordinate government responses crisis, must recognise problems solved understand effect climate change social stressors. effective solutions ones address underlying causes crisis, durable sensitive environmental changes brought warming world. 10.7 million people lake chad basin urgently need urgent support today. emergency relief provide nothing temporary respite address vicious accelerant fragility climate change. climate change part problem, part solution. alexander carius cofounder managing director adelphi . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author alexander carius alexander carius co-founder managing director adelphi. humanitarian crises climate sos nigeria chad africa
lowcock first visit yemen since taking un post [m huwais/getty images] un's aid chief arrived yemen's capital, sanaa, expressing deep concern war-torn country's deteriorating humanitarian crisis. mark lowcock first visit yemen since appointed under-secretary-general emergency relief coordinator september 1. "i come sanaa discussions authorities interlocutors ways improve humanitarian situation yemen," said upon arrival sanaa wednesday. lowcock added five-day visit country aimed reaffirming "the strong commitment united nations partners alleviate suffering yemenis need assistance". cholera, malnutrition yemen devastated two half years war houthi rebels captured sanaa overthrew president abd-rabbu mansour hadi's government. saudi-led coalition formed 2015 fight houthi rebels army troops allied them. according un , conflict killed 10,000 people left seven million need food assistance. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5616212760001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5616212760001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: un urges yemen war rivals consider schools safe zones (01:35) pageloadedsuccessfully millions others adequate access health, water sanitation services. country also hit cholera outbreak, 850,000 suspected cases since april. "i decided come yemen deeply concerned humanitarian crisis continued deteriorate," said lowcock. trip yemen started tuesday visit aden, seat internationally recognised government, held meetings local officials. also met internally displaced people visited hospital lahj met patients receiving treatment cholera malnutrition. source: al jazeera news humanitarian crises yemen middle east
refugees manus centre protest detention holding signs [courtesy @manusalert telegram] tuesday, australia close offshore camp manus island supreme court papua new guinea (png) ruled last year detention refugees unconstitutional. food, water electricity cut off, leaving 600 refugees fearful future. lived manus years, australia decided want refugees mainland; now, relocated png town lorengau. al jazeera spoke four refugees ended manus, treatment australia, thoughts future. persia: 'we like lab rats' persia arrived australia 2013, boat 80 refugees fleeing indonesia. second attempt; first boat, carrying 60 people, sank. shipwrecked small island, persia survivors eventually saved brought back indonesia. despite almost dying first time, persia determined make australia, tried again. upon arrival australian shores, however, group immediately arrested australian authorities sent manus. refugees manus detention centre protest way treated crossing arms [courtesy @manusalert telegram] "all people brought force, handcuffs, manus island," said persia, spoke al jazeera pseudonym fear repercussions. "i thought australia country applied human rights, totally wrong." treatment last years led persia distrust anyone acting behalf australian png governments. "we like lab rats," said. "i monitored australian government 4.5 years. know like dislike, colour underwear, family, weaknesses, details. "i don't see future," added. "honestly, death better slavery." {articleguid} recent months, parts manus detention centre prepared removal refugees. fox camp, largest living area, first closed, residents forced crowd areas. facilities services gym, library access english classes cut off. "we extreme stress," persia said. "the situation extremely horrible ... future me, cruel government doesn't want live like human being." days leading closure manus, several signs placed around camp, warning refugees facilities would gradually shut well. sunday, mess closed, food packets distributed among refugees - two packets per person, barely enough get two remaining days. meals prepared microwave stove, neither available refugees camp. small salad provided well, refugees refrigerators keep going bad. moving lorengau option persia, said, refugees done face abuse hands unwelcoming local community. "they said would cut everything push people move out, stay inside, inside safe," said. "we don't want move out. [we stay] shoot us." boochani: 'living war zone' kurdish-iranian journalist behrouz boochani arrived manus 2013 fleeing city ilam iran fear imprisonment, offices newspaper worked raided 11 colleagues arrested. first attempt reach australia, boat sank, barely survived; second time, boat spotted australian navy. {articleguid} even captivity, boochani remained true profession. one outspoken people manus camp, says hopes talking abysmal conditions make others listen. "the situation manus prison camp like living war zone, refugees ready something bad happen," told al jazeera. "at time, soldiers could attack prison camp." option relocating lorengau bad one, boochani said. food packet supposed last refugee two days [courtesy @manusalert telegram] "the local people angry australian government, feel government humiliated care wants," said. "they ready send message australia beating refugees. already lot times, lot refugees beaten robbed local people. "this place safe place refugees, protection them." looming prospect png security forces swooping clear manus camp frightening one boochani . earlier year, nine refugees injured small dispute security forces escalated shots fired, said. deal united states australia, us promised take unspecified number people manus nauru, raised hopes some, others remain sceptical. "why australia world don't want understand simple thing - refugees come country don't want here?" boochani asked. "why don't want understand people tortured four years?" abdul: 'an animal zoo' abdul arrived christmas island, australian territory, july 2013 fleeing conflict afghanistan. unaware australia struck deal png nauru offshore detention centres, would sent manus. several others travelled boat sent nauru, houses single women families. year later, june 2014, abdul, declined provide last name, officially recognised refugee. "i offered resettle papua new guinea," told al jazeera. "i'm resisting day, afraid attacked locals. locals want us here." reports refugees beaten robbed moving manus lorengau rampant, later opting move back relative safety manus. ronny knight, former representative manus png parliament, said two refugees beaten new year's eve lorengau police: "[they] deserved got ". now, manus detention centre closing, governor manus threatened block transfer refugees new facility, saying could guarantee safety. abdul says plans leave detention centre. refugees hold signs protest treatment australian png governments [courtesy @manusalert telegram] "we're staying, want solution endless suffering. danger," said. "everyone detention scared. mood down. fear removed forcibly lorengau." four years staying quiet, abdul said pressure built point speak out. "australia treats like animal zoo. experienced trauma, depression, stomach problems ... i've never scared like now," added. "i lost everything, i'll speak injustice. " abdul peers pooled money buy mobile phones, credits provided sympathetic australians. using phones, posted photos statements deteriorating conditions public telegram channel called manus alert. real connection outside world. still, closure detention centre approaches, abdul faith future. "i don't see future here. hope crushed," said. "in afghanistan, way out. here, see way out." amir: 'death waiting us outside centre' amir fled iran age 15. spending several years malaysia, left australia goal applying political religious asylum. eventually arrived christmas island, sent manus 2013. {articleguid} "imagine prison tropical island, thousands kilometres away home. lawyer, sentence rights. nothing," amir told al jazeera. amir, aspiring writer actor studied literature humanities, says already bad conditions refugees living years recently deteriorated. "dirty food, dirty conditions, malaria, terrible treatment guards cases, assaults insults," said. "and now, want cut running water, power, food, drinking water - want remove fencing protects refugees attacks locals." announcement mess hall closing posted manus detention centre earlier month [courtesy @manusalert telegram] result, says, mental physical health refugees greatly affected, especially part centre closed earlier year. however, like majority people living there, amir plan moving camp. "east lorengau another limbo, move there, australian government claim closed manus detention [centre], false. place can't hold 400 people mental illness factory," said. hours left camp shuts refugees forcibly moved, amir says bleak future awaits him. "right now, thing resist move, know death waiting us outside centre," said. " know without food water, dead too, least don't walk death feet. " interviews story conducted via whatsapp quotes edited grammar clarity. source: al jazeera news refugees australia papua new guinea humanitarian crises asia pacific
guterres, left, shakes hands people bangassou cathedral bangui, central african republic [joel kouam/the associated press] resurgent violence sweeping across central african republic left record 1.1 million people destitute homeless, un said. number people internally displaced increased 50 percent since january 2017. least 600,000 internally displaced across country, another 500,000 found across border chad , democratic republic congo, republic congo cameroon . latest data released unocha comes un secretary-general antonio guterres continues four-day visit car thursday describes "visit solidarity active solidarity". lobbying 900 peacekeepers join mission urged international community take action crisis killed thousands destabilised country. "i think conditions civilians car worse 2014," stephanie wolters, central africa analyst institute security studies pretoria, told al jazeera. "more people need ever before." right now, civilians don't access aid aid workers don't access civilians eric batonon, norwegian refugee council car beset conflict since seleka coalition rebels marched capital, bangui, deposed former president francois bozize. though country held elections february 2016, government unable stem conflict. administration mostly absent outside capital, armed groups controlling large swaths countryside. {articleguid} eric batonon, country director norwegian refugee council, based bangui, told al jazeera part solution would increasing protection. resurgent fighting factions seleka rebels anti-balaka militia deepened instability northwest southeastern parts country. forced aid agencies leave stations areas humanitarian needs high. "right now, civilians don't access aid aid workers don't access civilians. "if anything, clear situation critical; fact humanitarian actors continue targeted, means situation getting worse," said. least 12 peacekeepers killed since beginning 2017, added. wolters commended un's guterres car visit, warned sending un peacekeepers. "this intractable conflict, unresolved one, one appreciate [ guterres] gone there," said. "one problems traditional tools un peacekeeping worked places like car, burundi drc, matter. method forming peace agreements holding elections, worked. "these methods ended conflict. find ways disincentivize call arms car." wednesday, guterres told displaced people camp eastern bangassou moved suffering. "sadly, happening bangassou unique. thousands central africans flee," said. guterres also attended wreath-laying ceremony capital pay homage 12 peacekeepers killed 2017. #unday , pay tribute un peacekeepers working peace central african republic around world. @un_car pic.twitter.com/xpooplmjr3 — antónio guterres (@antonioguterres) october 24, 2017 un mission car routinely accused sexually exploiting abusing women children country. guterres told al jazeera would meeting survivors sexual abuse un peacekeepers capital. said un taken "a number measures put victims centre [of policy]". follow azad essa twitter: @azadessa hundreds thousands people homeless car [sorin furcoi/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news humanitarian crises africa central african republic
renderpagesvideo('5630580429001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); manus island detention centre 600 refugees spent several years trying reach australia closed tuesday papua new guinea (png) authorities. 600 men held centre forcibly moved new facilities lorengau, city five kilometres detention centre, officials said. australia used manus offshore detention centre since 2013, country struck deal png nauru hold refugees fleeing australia camps islands. however, 2015, png supreme court ordered manus detention centre closed unconstitutional. parts camp already shut. sunday, mess hall closed food packages handed refugees. message posted inside detention centre earlier tuesday stated access water electricity would cut off, refugees "advised move alternative accommodation now". "from tomorrow, arrangements way return site pngdf [png defense force]. anyone choosing remain liable removal active png military base", statement said, referencing fact detention centre originally naval base. final message posted manus detention centre, urging refugees move [courtesy @manusalert telegraam] nick mckim, mp green party australia, said closure camp solve anything. "in absence resettlement safe country, closure centre solution all. best easiest solution humanitarian disaster resettle men australia," spokesman mckim told al jazeera. "these men sought refuge australia remain australia's responsibility, legally morally." {articleguid} elaine pearson, australia director human rights watch (hrw), told al jazeera camp closed line png supreme court ruling. "but people held brought safety australia third countries, abandoned stay less-secure facilities run png government manus island," added. uncertain future ahead 600 refugees lived detention centre since 2013. treatment australia png centre criticism people living camp human rights organisations. despite impending closure camp, refugees want move lorengau afraid might happen there. {articleguid} "refugees don't want move don't feel safe. terrified given escalation brutal attacks refugees asylum seekers lorengau town. even occurred daytime," pearson said. "police failed investigate attacks." mckim's spokesman echoed sentiment. "many fear leaving centre, seen friends attacked local community. also deeply fearful forcibly removed placed danger somewhere else." refugees confirmed fears series interviews al jazeera. "right now, thing resist move, know death waiting us outside centre," amir, iranian refugee, told al jazeera. 600 refugees afraid moving camp fear retaliation locals. [file: @manusalert telegram] despite lack water, food electricity camp, amir said staying facility option. "we know without food water, dead too, least don't walk death feet," said. refugees also uncertain would happen indeed move lorengau. whose asylum applications approved, expected blend local community. denied asylum either sent back home country deemed safe go back, held detention indefinitely third country offers take in. addition feared hostilities manus locals, uncertainty happen move lorengau, current state centres also worries refugees. "the new camps finished, means simply enough beds ready men. untenable unfair," spokesman mckim said. one solutions australia offered move refugees third countries. australia refugee deal united states, us taken 50 refugees yet, stated many willing take total. another option new zealand, offered take 150 refugees. however, 1,600 refugees australia's offshore detention centres. besides manus, nauru camp well. "like manus island, nauru suitable place refugees. greens urge government close nauru detention centre bring men, women children australia," hwr's pearson said, adding australia still responsible get move thirds countries. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5473646133001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5473646133001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > pageloadedsuccessfully "the us deal excuse australia nothing, happened. australia still responsibility refugees provide safe country settle - png clearly safe." source: al jazeera news refugees papua new guinea humanitarian crises australia asia pacific
trauma surgeon shazeer majeed worked doctors without borders (msf) yemen , south sudan iraq . working northern syria, region gripped instability, shares day-to-day reality trying keep victims war alive. "we usually think remnants war unexploded shells, bombs ieds. trauma surgeon working msf hospital tal abyad, nearest secondary health facility raqqa city surgical capacity, seen different kind remnant - lethal injuries damage weapons leave behind. effect high-energy explosives, like used warring parties raqqa, catastrophic human body. often injuries fatal person close range bomb, rocket, shell submunitions immediate blast effect. person lucky enough away direct impact, likely experience secondary effects blast wave high energy projectiles cause considerable damage solid hollow viscera - injuries bleeding chest, lacerations liver, spleen kidneys, gastric bowel perforations, open bone fractures associated vascular soft tissue injury. operating theatre surgery conducted tal abyad general hospital, northern syria [courtesy: msf] yesterday, ward rounds, got called emergency room see two young sisters. young women lost limb air strike five days ago, travelled two long days reach tal abyad hospital. one sister aged 20 years presented amputation elbow, sister aged 15 years amputation knee. undergone first surgery elsewhere reached msf facility, amputated wounds prematurely sutured closed severely infected. trauma setting, even highly-trained team struggles counteract surgery's effects severely injured patient young women need go back theatre urgently, wounds reopened contain infection. surgically choices instance: imperative limit spread infection aggressive debridement, results residual limbs inevitably shortened. 15-year-old disarticulated hip, means complete removal lower limb hip joint. type amputation easy fit artificial limb, means young woman likely spend much future wheelchair, difficult reality confront age. day still theatre, stepped evaluate 20-year-old male emergency room. body littered routinely describe shrapnel, reality metallic fragments bomb shell, objects debris expelled explosion. fragments seared young man's body causing massive internal bleeding damage chest abdomen, caused multiple open fractures lower limbs. immediately transferred operating theatre, every minute matters. several long hours later, survived multiple surgeries close chest, explore abdomen, identify stop source bleeding, removal spleen fixation fractured lower limbs. luckily, young man fully recover, albeit slowly. nothing unusual three patients, nothing differentiates injuries scores treated last week, kind injuries, kind destruction. ruins raqqa, syria, captured image october 18 [erik de castro/reuters] outcomes war surgery associated primarily two critical elements. firstly, adequate resuscitation, soon possible injury second quality timing initial formal surgery operating theatre. concept 'golden hour' refers notion delay resuscitation worsens survival outcomes. northern syria stabilisation points operating near front lines around raqqa - assuming wounded patients even navigate city reach them. raqqa city upwards three hours' drive away msf hospital tal abyad. surviving three-hour long ambulance journey severe life-threatening injuries biggest challenge. trauma setting, even highly-trained team struggles counteract surgery's effects severely injured patient. nearly seven years war, health services northern syria limited, constrained lack trained staff many health workers fled, displaced killed. medical supplies scarce due fragility transport routes import them, health facilities damaged neglected. salvaging body brutal consequences explosive weapons devices everyday reality northern syria salvaging body brutal consequences explosive weapons devices everyday reality northern syria. last months treated hundreds people injured conflict even current military offensive draws end, unfortunately expect continue see blast-injured patients encounter landmines ieds raqqa. inevitably continue witness devastating physical psychological reminders war among population long time come. phone rings again, time head emergency room, another blast patient way." source: al jazeera news humanitarian crises syria's civil war
icrc president peter maurer gestures children look visit beach gaza city september 5, 2017 [mohammed salem/reuters] turkish city antalya, delegates 190 countries gathered discuss safety concerns challenges faced humanitarian workers volunteers field. general assembly international federation red cross red crescent societies (ifrc) began november 6. evolving nature conflict disaster zones, access affected people, funding also deliberated. long-standing question whether humanitarian aid helping prolong conflicts syria, yemen elsewhere, remains. al jazeera spoke peter maurer, president international committee red cross (icrc). al jazeera: challenges face overcome them? peter maurer: today's conflicts, course multiple challenges accessing besieged areas populations can't reach. first foremost challenge access security humanitarian workers. relates existing non-existing neutral impartial space humanitarian action instead see today increase call politicisation humanitarian space. {articleguid} state non-state armed actors enter humanitarian space trying manipulate humanitarian work, humanitarian workers, health workers. respect neutrality hospitals traditional humanitarian work instead try make instrument warfare. big preoccupation organisation like icrc, basically designed front line operator red cross red crescent movement. al jazeera: impartial? local committees criticised various parts world providing aid state non-state actors allow ... maurer: need engage parties conflict, access sides explain doing. end day, accountable political power ground, accountability means transparency exactly doing. {articleguid} need explain needs based policy based political bias. needs much more, frankly reason icrc founded 150 years ago. conflicts, it's difficult red cross red crescent sides front line. it's much easier icrc international component movement try negotiate space order recreate space. again, means icrc engage sides negotiate, make people ground aware better know actor talk them. {articleguid} sometimes civil society - people ground - defend us, talk fighters able rein certain circumstances. multiplicity activities entertaining changing little bit way working even big challenges facing. al jazeera: would respond criticism use humanitarian work weapon war helped authoritarian governments remain power? maurer: icrc founded 19th century, exactly debate organisation faced. criticism generated organisation would prolong war instead abolishing it. think today aware situation. can't escape humanitarian imperative helping people survive difficult circumstances. can't really defend governments non-state armed groups manipulate humanitarian work. can't escape humanitarian imperative helping people survive difficult circumstances work well ground needed allow manipulated way results people misinterpreting misrepresenting humanitarian work. good conscience see doing. still minimum saving lives, stabilising people, bringing people together. that's classical humanitarianism. people critical say prolonging war, let manipulated. end day know that's happens war. look facts, facts say saving lives people. al jazeera: humanitarian workers volunteers dying year afghanistan central african republic. better protect them? maurer: icrc, ones responsible security staff members volunteers movement. think lot training offer lot support families volunteers workers killed. tragedy seen unfolding totalitarian way warfare evolved resulted colleagues victims attacks. zainullah, 18, mould cast prosthetic arm international committee red cross (icrc) orthopaedic centre november 20, 2012 kabul, afghanistan [daniel berehulak/getty images] health workers hospitals victims attacks. challenges us education also respond crises. puts us front dilemma every day. look maximum security people go context order save lives civilians? it's dilemma us every day forces us take hard critical decisions. al jazeera: conflicts expanding impartial space shrinking. fears years come hope? maurer: icrc statistics show violations international humanitarian law carried almost equally state non-state actors largest conflicts world. stop politicised incursions humanitarian spaces come political actors understand enormous cost manipulation politicisation humanitarian space has. fear continue dynamic war violence, little bit hopeful look dialogue state non-state armed groups. think rising awareness can't go gone last couple years, particularly middle east, change course. change behaviour comes respect international humanitarian law, disregarded many outdated. source: al jazeera news humanitarian crises middle east
president kiir us ambassador un [jok solomun/reuters] south sudan president salva kiir 's government using food weapon war target civilians blocking life-saving aid areas, united nations sanctions monitors told security council confidential report seen reuters friday. 2016 2017, un monitors said military campaign government troops northwestern town wau surrounding areas western bahr el-ghazal targeted civilians ethnic grounds displaced 100,000. "the government much 2017 deliberately prevented life-saving food assistance reaching citizens," monitors wrote. "these actions amount using food weapon war intent inflict suffering civilians government views opponents agenda." "the denial aid caused extreme food insecurity among large sections population, malnutrition death starvation documented outcome, particular greater baggari area wau county," said report submitted un security council's south sudan sanctions committee. south sudan's mission un immediately respond request comment un report. south sudan spiralled civil war late 2013, two years gaining independence sudan , third 12 million population fled homes. conflict sparked feud kiir, dinka, former deputy riek machar, nuer, held south africa . un warned violence south sudan providing "fertile ground" genocide. us ambassador un nikki haley visited juba city late last month, told kiir us lost trust government risked losing washington's support pursue peace. 'catastrophic' un monitors reported government regularly denied humanitarian aid access certain parts population, particular, areas outside town wau, visited un security council ambassadors september 2016. "one areas, greater baggari, noteworthy persistent systematic nature government's access denials, catastrophic humanitarian conditions resulted," independent un monitors said. august, government eased restrictions, allowing aid groups distribute food lifesaving assistance 12,000 people greater baggari. villages looted burned crops destroyed, un monitors wrote. one humanitarian assessment mission told un monitors 164 young children elderly died hunger disease january september 2017. un report found despite catastrophic conditions across south sudan, armed forces, groups militias - particularly affiliated kiir vice president taban deng gai - continued "actively impede humanitarian peacekeeping operations". un peacekeepers deployed south sudan since 2011. east african bloc, intergovernmental authority development (igad), led two rounds peace talks two years, culminating brief power-sharing agreement signed kiir machar 2015. even igad urges new ceasefire, warring parties preparing fighting. "the coming dry season south sudan will, absent change current conflict dynamics, see fighting civilian suffering government continues pursue military victory political compromise," un monitors wrote. source: reuters news agency humanitarian crises food south sudan salva kiir un
renderpagesvideo('5640142939001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); millions people die yemen , world's worst famine crisis decades, unless saudi-led military coalition ends devastating blockade allows aid country, united nations warned. saudi-led alliance fighting houthi rebels yemen tightened air, land sea blockade country ballistic missile fired saturday towards saudi capital, riyadh. since then, country's already inflated food fuel prices skyrocketed, flights delivering much-needed humanitarian aid prevented landing. briefing un security council wednesday, mark lowcock, un's humanitarian chief, said move worsen "catastrophic" humanitarian crisis pushed millions brink famine caused mass cholera epidemic. "i told council unless measures lifted ... famine yemen," lowcock, visited yemen late october, told reporters wednesday. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5639525150001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5639525150001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: 'situation catastrophic' saudi tightens blockade yemen (1:59) "it like famine saw south sudan earlier year, tens thousands people affected. like famine cost 250,000 people lives somalia 2011," added. "it largest famine world seen many decades, millions victims." 'guarded response' despite lowcock's stark warning, security council, strongly condemned firing missile houthi rebels, announced immediate action blockade. italian ambassador sebastiano cardi, holds council's presidency, expressed concern "dire humanitarian situation yemen" stressed "the importance keeping yemen's ports airports functioning," added cardi. al jazeera's james bays, reporting un headquarters new york, said council's response "seemed guarded". said comments lowcock, visited yemen late last month, brought "reality yemen security council, now, they've responded carefully chosen words rather concrete action". briefed member states today mission #yemen . statement: https://t.co/ycepe6hc63 pic.twitter.com/h05ic0uavq — mark lowcock (@unreliefchief) november 6, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > kristine beckerle, yemen researcher human rights watch , said "far past time" members un security council "made clear" yemen's warring sides "concrete consequences" cases obstruction humanitarian assistance. "the council already mechanism sanctioning people yemen committing gross violations," told al jazeera. beckerle said government officials countries us , uk france typically "issuing broad recitations concern", without, however, acting upon it. "it's enough us uk say worried famine yemen. "at point, it's security council members, particularly allied saudi arabia, using leverage disposal pushing people actually make changes ways fighting war certainly stop impending access aid." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5636836506001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5636836506001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: saudi arabia blames iran missile attack (2:49) yemen devastated two half years war houthi rebels, believed backed iran , captured capital, sanaa, overthrew president abd-rabbu mansour hadi's government. saudi-led coalition formed 2015 fight houthi rebels army troops allied them. {articleguid} according un, conflict killed 10,000 people left seven million need food assistance. millions others adequate access health, water sanitation services. country also hit cholera outbreak, 900,000 suspected cases since april. dire situation calling five-point action plan, lowcock wednesday urged saudi-led coalition reopen airspace humanitarian flights yemen provide assurances access would disrupted again. also called agreement allow world food programme ship anchor yemeni coast, re-opening seaports, allow food, fuel medical supplies enter country, "scaling back interference" vessels "passed inspection un verification inspection mechanism". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5638029682001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5638029682001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: 'saudi arabia's blockade death sentence yemenis' (3:04) pageloadedsuccessfully earlier wednesday, 15 humanitarian agencies expressed deep concern saudi-led blockade, demanding humanitarian operations allowed resume immediately. "in less day, blockade already hiked fuel prices governorates much 60 percent people scramble stock up, led disruption public transportation," groups, including oxfam, save children international rescue committee, said statement. "the closure sea land ports means urgently-needed lifesaving medical supplies ceased, potentially affecting hundreds thousands people." saudi arabia said closure aimed preventing smuggling weapons yemen accused regional rival iran providing missile launched houthis saturday. iran denied accusation. source: al jazeera news humanitarian crises yemen un middle east
myanmar's military crackdown country's rohingya resulted killing 400 men, women children driven hundreds thousands country. 500,000 rohingya refugees bangladeshi refugee camps. them, half unregistered camps, food, shelter, drinking water sanitation luxury. refugees carry harrowing stories mass killings, gang rapes razing whole villages, enough break even seasoned journalists. "no pictures, videos, writings explain happening there. beyond explanation." - showkat shafi show: al jazeera journalists saif khalid showkat shafi travelled cox's bazar, bangladesh, report ongoing rohingya crisis. host jasmin bauomy. follow twitter: @msaifkhalid @showkatshafi @jasminbauomy . read more: look us hope, document despair cox's bazar: chaos around rohingya camps subscribe debrief iphone ipad: reading phone tablet, tap . podcasts app, subscribe debrief get new episodes absolutely free. prefer different app, here's rss feed . android: subscribe listen debrief spotify , google play , stitcher tunein . different app, here's rss feed . desktop laptop: find episodes . note: you'll need keep browser window tab open keep listening. source: al jazeera news podcast rohingya myanmar human rights humanitarian crises
least 2,600 children died hospital since january [al jazeera] gorakhpur, uttar pradesh, india - early afternoon august 22, pawan tiwari wife rinki sobbed inconsolably front baba raghav das (brd) medical college northern indian city gorakhpur. "oh, boy, oh, boy," wailed tiwari's wife rinki sitting floor. parents children hospital tried comfort couple sitting outside shade tree. doctors informed pawan, 35, six-year-old child, naitik tiwari, dead. shortly afterward, pawan's brother, anjan tiwari, emerged hospital tell son still breathing doctors struggling save him. couple rushed inside ward. peeked glass window paediatric intensive care unit look son, eyes swollen crying. pawan wife left ward, brother broke down. told given false hope; doctor told child unlikely survive. august, deaths 60 children five days hospital northern uttar pradesh (up) state, allegedly due oxygen failure, caused public uproar . children died infections conditions japanese encephalitis. naitik among 415 children died month august, according official data provided largest government hospital region. deaths children brd hospital 2014 - 1,845 2015 - 2,132 2016 - 2,729 january-october 2017 - 2,600 first 23 days month least 354 children, including 231 newborns, died, taking death toll 1,000 since august. children arrive hospital malnourished newborns, dr pk singh, college principal, told al jazeera august. flooding region - eastern western bihar states - caused widespread infections, added. "children already infected; die first hour admission. patient load much, nearly 4,000 patients coming daily. can't refuse admit them," said, adding staff place multiple children onto single bed. one doctor every 17 patients, said, normal ratio one every ten. "in country, neonatal mortality rate per 1,000 live births 27 it's 43. deaths neonatal stage due breathing problems. next big cause infection," said professor kp kushwaha, former principal brd medical college. "by time infants arrive hospital condition already critical stage. becomes difficult save infants stage," said kushwaha, renowned pediatrician, adding institutional approach toward neonatal care must overhauled, include specialised care primary community health centres across region. woman looks intensive care unit (icu) baba raghav das hospital [cathal mcnaughton/reuters] deaths brd, major state-run hospital 200km radius put focus - country spends 1.2 percent gdp public health - facility cannot adequately care patients wider, impoverished region desperately needs government provide healthcare infrastructure. {articleguid} vandana prasad, national convener people's health movement - india, network 1,000 non-government organisations, told al jazeera "failure entire system". "i take point children come brd medical college critical condition, done address situation? wasn’t health infrastructure primary community health centres strengthened [by government]?" asked. "the brd medical college needed improvement, faces shortage doctors, beds ventilators. issues fixed?" people's health movement – india said statement deaths brd: "the entire country horrified recent deaths…this net result decades grossly inadequate investment public health sector services... drastic situation, compounded misgovernance, mismanagement corruption powder keg waiting ignite year year, resultant loss innocent lives." patients face long waits naitik first developed fever august 10. initially responded well medicines later complained stomach ache. parents took private clinics home district gopalgunj, doctors diagnosed typhoid fever. week later, fever continued, local doctors referred brd medical college. {articleguid} pawan, garment factory worker western state gujarat main breadwinner family, travelled 100km village khatwanian neighbouring state bihar reach hospital. hired local taxi left hospital son, wife brother night august 18. naitik admitted hospital night, doctors said come earlier. medical terms, condition critical. "we best. faith god," doctors promised distraught pawan. day met pawan wife, 11.30 next morning, went visit naitik bed number 15 paediatric ward. wasn't there. another child place. one could tell happened naitik. parents weren't there. later hospital officials confirmed child died encephalitis. "the entire country horrified recent deaths…this net result decades grossly inadequate investment public health sector services. people's health movement – india went outpatient department 200 people queue, waiting see doctor. among ramawati, 65, 30-year-old daughter. live two kilometres away already waiting queue two hours. seventy-year-old dashrath prasad travelled 80km follow-up appointment. stood humid, narrow hospital corridor, dabbing sweat balding head white cotton towel draped right shoulder. clerk registering patients sweated profusely. every then, stood reprimand patients tried cut queue. dashrath, wearing dhoti - unstitched piece cloth worn around waist - kurta (a shirt), come 15 days blood pressure shot up. last doctor saw leave dashrath forced register again. meanwhile, dashrath still seen doctor standing queue three hours. patients complained long waits indifferent staff. lamented one day goes see doctor; another day diagnostic tests required. "i spent rs 80 ($1.25) reach hospital. entire day take see doctor," dashrath said angrily. "poor management hospital administration killing patients." overworked doctors doctors said overworked hospital understaffed. 9am 2pm, outpatient doctors said see 200 300 patients. "we work much pressure due high number patients even able discuss diseases resident doctors. teaching hospital, also required research diseases time goes seeing patients," said resident doctor orthopedic department, declined named. "we work much pressure due high number patients even able discuss diseases resident doctors. resident doctor clerks registering patients staff involved diagnostic work, blood tests x-rays, staff said overwhelmed far patients hospital handle. "we work three shifts, conducting least 600 diagnostic tests 24 hours," sanjay mishra, head central pathology department, told al jazeera. 11.30am, 1,750 patients already registered four counters outpatient department, two staff radiology department conducted 80 x-rays, central pathology department - dealing blood sputum tests - 105 patients registers. orthopedic section, patient number 120 summoned. medicine department already administered prescriptions 220 patients. gate nehru hospital brd, many patients arrived autorickshaw, rather ambulance. situation, year-round, brd medical college. central record room located second floor nehru hospital, 35-year-old suleman khan, head record keeping, sits desk. files piled room. khan says last year, 605,226 patients visited outpatient department 60,891 admitted additional care. july 31 year, outpatient department seen 317,555 patients admitted 33,047 people. past four years, number patients grown almost one half times was. "every year number patients increasing. months august, september october see spike patient intake," said, referring rainy season months. deaths 60 children august allegedly due oxygen failure caused public uproar [cathal mcnaughton/reuters] underserviced region college, named freedom fighter educationist, baba raghav das, established 1969 state's eighth medical college. began total 50 students later increased 100. today, still 100 student spots. number resident doctors see patients marginally increased 36 54, number patients increased manifold. 2012 report, professor radhamohan misra - former vice chancellor college convener gorakhpur health forum, public health monitor - said patients 14 districts eastern uttar pradesh five districts bihar come brd consultation. today, brd tertiary healthcare centre region 60 million people straddling uttar pradesh bihar. patients neighbouring nepal also seek treatment there. plans upgrade neonatal intensive care unit, doctors paediatric department say won't enough keep pace demand facilities. last year, work upgrading brd began. new medical college inaugurated government prime minister narendra modi july last year. 130km away gorakhpur, village khatwanian gopalgunj district, pawan family still grieving loss naitik. pawan outside house, head shaved part mourning ritual. "it misfortune, feel like talking now," said. "i buried son near chhathi maiya (a local deity worshipped long life children)," said. "i removed belongings, face go away eyes," pawan said. wife rinki able come terms death elder child; three-year-old daughter anshikha. family members said grown weak due crying. family debt due medical costs crossed 100,000 indian rupees ($1,543). "i sell two bigha (.50 hectare) land clear debt," pawan told al jazeera sitting inside hut front incomplete house, still without main door. family debt due medical costs [al jazeera] story translated hindi english. source: al jazeera news author manoj kumar singh health india poverty & development asia
durban, south africa - eighteen-year-old mlungisi mokoena school, is, weekday, guarding one-room wooden shack roofed steel sheets. belongs one 50 families living green belt forest corner wiggins blinkbonnie outside eastern port city durban. "i don't school uniform," mokoena says, looking little sheepish. mokoena says august, police city's land invasion unit entered settlement axes shotguns. demolished homes, burned belongings fired rubber bullets resistors. mokoena shot legs. home razed ground too. "i two pairs pants, one shirt, two pairs socks, came, burned down. left school shirt two left socks," says. since august, home demolished two times. mokoena's story similar experiences many families here. fifty-eight-year-old noncedile diko, domestic worker employed middle class family home road, returned work find shack razed. lives collection plastic cardboard - branches hold sheets, home resembles teepee. nhlanhla kubeka, 27, still nursing head injury shot close range rubber bullets. says afraid go find work, fearing might return empty home. infants young children live conditions [azad essa/al jazeera] debris razed homes litters forest. splattering fractured steel sheets, broken pieces wood, glass rubbish lie drying clothes dirty stoves. unemployed men gather shade slinga berry mango trees talk numbly. electricity, save siphoned lines, certainly water. shrubs serve toilets. children play inside abandoned large gutter pipes lying about; taunt tease other, blind unfit surroundings. demand housing land housing remain contentious issues post-apartheid south africa. according 2016 report people's environmental planning (pep), npo supports communities living informal settlements, 12 million people without adequate housing country. "according current estimates, housing backlog stands 2.1 2.5 million units," pep said. rural economy collapsing, demand housing close cities rise; vacant land blinkbonnie road prime property. city made clear willing tolerate land invasions. warren burne, counsellor westville area, told al jazeera "the poor living conditions making". earlier year, durban high court judge ruled certain people living blinkbonnie road protected shacks demolished. court identified 35 families could live forest gave homes numbers, marked doors walls red paint. municipality says houses demolished new settlements, point contention shack dwellers movement, abahlali basemjondolo. george bonono, spokesperson abahlali basemjondolo movement, says municipality right demolish homes without providing alternate housing occupants [azad essa/al jazeera] george bonono, spokesperson movement, told al jazeera clear living forest supposed go. little wonder 18-year-old mokoena wants complete school become lawyer. turmoil past five months, good reason. "i want become lawyer, fight peoples' rights. "i hope become something destroy me," says.
prime minister theresa may place aid programme centre global identity post-brexit world, writes o'connell [reuters] march 5th, 1946, winston churchill gave speech fulton, missouri. remembered famous "iron curtain" speech - churchill sought define new global role uk us opposing soviet russia. many see speech marking start cold war, also clear rallying call uk remain engaged world stage, whilst looking redefine britain's identity second world war time declining colonial powers. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5481360881001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5481360881001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: know brexit's likely consequences? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully fast forward 70 years similar crossroads. picking pieces world war, opposing soviet union, post- brexit , uk facing identity crisis great global challenges security, peace economic development. time extraordinary change, nation must identify place world. prime minister theresa may called uk "great global trading nation" would disagree aspiration. means, though, subject intense debate. nature future trade deals be, example? implications workers' rights, environmental standards equitable distribution benefits trade? one key questions defining uk's position world stage role international aid. important issue real decisions made. example, ensure maximum efficiency effectiveness aid? tackle poverty increasingly concentrated fragile states, vicious circle conflict displacement? opinion: need talk (honestly) aid current political atmosphere, hurtle full speed towards making decisions affect future country, often presented false choices. instead falling trap making decisions based either/or scenarios, let's identify false choices able get making real ones. first false choice choice trade aid. one hand, argue aid impedes development private sector defeat poverty. side, instinctively wary private sector involvement aid development. real choice whether courage unite behind vision uk active compassionate player world stage. necessary choose business development. business benefits stable international economic political environment aid helps deliver ( pdf ). meanwhile, reject private sector order achieve aims global development - fact, quite opposite . false dichotomy trade aid reflected false choices - compassion rationality, morality reality. leaders business heartless, aid proponents live dreamland. examples bad practices sides, fundamental conflict. possible clear-eyed, moral, rational compassionate time. brings us final false choice - prioritising uk's interests maintaining well-funded, effective aid strategy. calls use aid budget explicitly advance uk commercial interests, necessary - benefit anyway. course, aid successful and, i've previously written, aid sector need better communicating challenges risks. overall effects aid unquestionably positive, economic development generally uk interests particular. aid helps deliver stable, peaceful prosperous world us all. possible pro-uk, pro-business vision alongside smart effective aid strategy - morally rationally, eye uk's place world . opinion: scapegoating foreign aid churchill said 1946: "… suppose … half century now, see 70 80 millions britons spread world united defence traditions, way life, world causes espouse." seventy years uk society is, like countries, worryingly polarised. far adding polarisation, aid potential unite us. uk aid recognised among best world. helps define global role proud it. major parties including 0.7 percent commitment manifestos, theresa may singular opportunity. prime minister choose work across political spectrum, she's recently stated priority, place aid programme centre global identity post-brexit world. forge identity must reject false choices. real choice whether courage unite behind vision uk active compassionate player world stage. simon o'connell executive director mercy corps europe senior vice president global partnerships. experienced development professional two decades working numerous countries africa, simon passionate promoting equitable opportunity. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author simon o'connell simon o'connell executive director mercy corps europe senior vice president global partnerships. aid united kingdom politics poverty & development europe
climate change threatening food production never before, prioritising efforts help farmers adapt, writes annan [reuters] africa witnessing quiet revolution holds real hope banishing poverty hunger driving economic growth. transformation sectors like oil gas, minerals tourism, grab global headlines, agriculture, remains backbone continent's economy. despite rapid growth services sector, agriculture still accounts third gdp. africa urbanising rapidly, agriculture still employs two-thirds workforce. evidence shown growth agriculture 11 times effective reducing poverty growth sector. want end poverty hunger africa 2030, agriculture needs right heart strategy. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5115787072001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5115787072001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: food security africa achieved? (25:01) pageloadedsuccessfully african agriculture smallholder farmers often forgotten. result africa, despite hard work farmers, grow enough feed people. one four continent's population undernourished, huge barrier better health development. direct economic cost, too, $35bn spent importing food annually - figure could almost triple 2025 unless africa increases agricultural productivity. compound this, political failures violent conflicts put millions people risk starvation. earlier year, un warned 20 million people across northeast nigeria , somalia, south sudan yemen risk starvation, humanitarian crisis almost entirely man-made. fortunately, dismal picture giving way signs progress. first, last decade, agriculture received growing attention governments investors. example, last year's african green revolution forum (agrf) - forum helped launch decade ago - $30bn worth political, financial policy pledges made; largest-ever commitment continent's agriculture. turning point. now, taking steps turn pledges results. year's agrf early september, witnessed signing many agro-business deals amounting $6bn. opinion: crop biodiversity: key ending hunger second, smallholder farmers becoming recognised small businesses are. initiatives like farm market alliance , help smallholder farmers secure long-term buyers produce, gaining momentum. gives confidence invest grow businesses knowing market harvest. third, changing way work together. new partnerships emerging, like recently launched, multimillion-dollar partnership inclusive agricultural transformation africa (piata). aims increase incomes improve food security 30 million smallholder farm households across africa 2021. first time seen largest funders agricultural development pooling resources efforts towards common goal. represents new way business. supporting africa's smallholder farmers, build africa free hunger. fourth, climate change threatening food production never before, prioritising efforts help farmers adapt. embracing, example, solutions drought heat-tolerant crops, modern weather information systems, efficient irrigation systems, farmers cope changing weather conditions. fifth, putting much bigger emphasis quality diets, rather focusing quantity. sub-saharan africa, millions lack nutrients needed proper health development. one ways tackling malnutrition making crops nutritious. orange-fleshed sweet potato, higher levels vitamin a, example success. children get enough vitamin a, growth slowed, immune system weakened, risk going blind. half cup sweet potato new varieties enough give children daily intake vitamin. result better health, better economies; experts estimate undernutrition costs african economies around 11 percent gdp annually. signs progress rarely make global headlines, slowly surely transforming economies improving lives millions across continent. africa taking control agricultural transformation. essential continent ensure african farmers companies enjoy full benefits growing food market, projected worth $1 trillion 2030. opinion: tackle repetitive droughts horn africa end, progress continue focus agriculture path prosperity, monitor progress hold account. fortunately, request african heads state, review progress carried right now, presented african union summit january next year. believe register considerable progress last years; yet getting started. shall reap sow. supporting africa's smallholder farmers, build africa free hunger. build africa free poverty. build africa proud economically strong able feed itself. bountiful harvest together must achieve. kofi annan founder chair kofi annan foundation served seventh secretary-general united nations. chair emeritus alliance green revolution africa. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author kofi annan kofi annan founder chair kofi annan foundation served seventh secretary general un. agriculture poverty & development africa
girl stands flooded area hurricane irma fort liberte, haiti september 8, 2017 [andres martinez casares/reuters] hurricane season haiti runs june november. still two months go. keep checking latest data us national oceanic atmospheric administration predicts hurricanes. we've already harvey , irma, jose, katia lee, maria. world meteorological association list names ready could come next: nate, ophelia, philippe, rina, sean, tammy, vince, whitney. prepare. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5583282265001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5583282265001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: storms getting worse it's fault (2:37) pageloadedsuccessfully scientists say season unusual two category 4 two maximum category 5 hurricanes single month. october last year, category 5 matthew hit million people south-east haiti. year, another category 5 - irma - threatened northern haiti destroyed smaller caribbean islands. irma skirted haiti and, reminding destructive sense purpose, hit cuba instead, devastating housing, infrastructure agriculture, rebounding florida. haiti's northern municipalities, oxfam, unicef local health ministry run "fire-fighter" cholera elimination programme. cholera like wildfire. oxfam teams work isolate case, set sanitary cordon, seek source treat water. "the programme finally achieving success," says laurence desvignes, coordinates programme. "zero cases since july, ten cases week north, hundreds week peak epidemic." read more: hurricane maria leaves least 15 dead dominica lot cholera united states back 1800s. people become stricken diarrhoea dehydration. it's killer. modern water sewage treatments stop it. solution mystery incredibly difficult haiti poor water sanitation. "if hurricane hit us hard could ignited another epidemic easily," says desvignes. one immediate task spend getting people prepared. means developing expert local humanitarian capacity, leading better contingency planning, risk mitigation, education awareness. climate change changing game us. warmer atlantic waters super-charging storms, making frequent intense. caribbean island nations terribly exposed front line. many people turn religion, "the sigh oppressed creature, heart heartless world, soul soulless conditions …the opium people". might help give comfort isn't going fix problem. climate change needs us rethink, globally locally. need new direction public private investment. one immediate task spend getting people prepared. means developing expert local humanitarian capacity, leading better contingency planning, risk mitigation, education awareness. must involve vulnerable communities. already policies often even laws. there's big gap acting upon - stunning absence political will. everywhere. inter-american development bank's new risk management index measures countries' capacity reduce risk, recover disaster provide financial protection. every country measured region failed reach even satisfactory level. international community currently spends 1 percent aid disaster preparedness. since 2000, million people died disasters. recovering costing us $250bn $300bn year. undp says e ach dollar invested disaster preparedness saves seven dollars recovery. know do. need more. watch: what's behind world's recent extreme weather events? (25:16) really causes "disaster" wind rain … economic inequality. haiti less 500 miles florida may well another planet. haiti's prosperous rice production, principal economic activity, long-since collapsed tariffs stripped 50 percent 3 percent subsidised us rice able dumped onto market. jobs haiti, social protection, safety nets insurances. haiti's social economic situation one hemisphere's biggest collective failures. end fire-fighting cholera hurricane haiti. week - even hurricane irma spared - violence erupted streets port au prince. police sprayed tear gas people. spark new budget, approved parliament eve irma, voted 74 percent increase salaries benefits members parliament alongside new taxes consumption hit pockets poorest. preparatory measure guarantee disaster. simon ticehurst oxfam regional director latin america caribbean . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author simon ticehurst simon ticehurst oxfam regional director latin america caribbean. weather environment poverty & development haiti
migrant worker carries scrap material collected debris demolished buildings outskirts beijing, china [thomas peter/reuters] there's point every struggle momentum shifts behind you. optimism becomes ambition. recall moments resistance overcome dictator uganda . felt perseverant optimism, young refugee, got customs heathrow airport. beijing 1995, saw hope surge globally women's rights . days locked latest form lifelong struggle - fight global extreme inequality. i'm feeling increasingly optimistic. week ambitious new commission global economic transformation cochaired michael spence joseph stiglitz launches. honoured join behalf oxfam. commission heralds new confidence rules governance global economy needs. world confront sees eight men wealth bottom 3.6 billion people. oxfam's research revealed last 25 years, top one percent gained income bottom 50 percent put together. seven 10 people planet must survive less $7 day. economic ideas yesterday bequeathed us economy built one percent destroying planet destroying future children. {articleguid} women crushed bottom global economic heap, whose poverty powers supposed success globalisation. likely dangerous, precarious, part-time employment , lower wages. sexually harassed assaulted. ones cooking, cleaning caring; free labour worth trillions - $10 trillion year global economy according mckinsey . united states , oxfam works poultry workers ( pdf ) high levels repetitive strain injury cutting open chickens longer close fingers hold children's hands. work hotel cleaners complain sexual assault told go back hotel room apologise male guest. exploitation pain place modern world. world short invention. new technologies transform world ways could never imagined. washing machine piped water given women back years lives. mobile phones opened world billions. yet often, new technologies 21st century married capitalism belongs 19th century - designed push risk onto bottom profit top. technology fault - make it. reimagine "fourth industrial revolution" serves humanity, owners capital technology. business help take economy different direction. far rejecting globalisation, need governments cooperate - put place new muscular rules governance issues taxation wages. must different business kind got us crisis - create decent jobs pay living wages, restore environment, pay taxes treat women girls equally. future business lies models serve workers, suppliers communities, shareholders. that's break current global trends. take uk : according bank england's chief economist, 1970s, 10 percent company profits paid dividends shareholders. today, it's 70 percent. governments ultimately must confidence cede space one percent driving crisis name market. {articleguid} markets vital engine prosperity growth, cannot continue accept pretence engine steers car, decides best direction take. markets need active management interests everyone fairly distribute proceeds growth. far rejecting globalisation, need governments cooperate - put place new muscular rules governance issues taxation wages. lose governments compete drive poverty wages enable richest corporations individuals avoiding hundreds billions taxes. think way international cooperation (eventually) brokered progress tackle climate change . must forge ambitious common-sense design economy purposed benefit 99 percent, one percent. makings oxfam calls human economy. less "global economic transformation" needed today. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author winnie byanyima winnie byanyima executive director oxfam international. @ winnie_byanyima poverty & development business & economy
renderpagesvideo('5598833700001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); caught middle war words us president donald trump politicians puerto rico , debt-riddled impoverished us territory suffering severe food shortages, lack clean water, widespread power outages hurricane maria slammed island last month. white house appeared walk back donald trump's suggestion puerto rico's $72bn debt cancelled island recover hurricane's devastation. prior hurricane, island undergone severe austerity programme several years order pay debts, leaving us territory's infrastructure vulnerable damage. read more: puerto ricans denounce us hurricane relief efforts politicians decide island's debt recovery, puerto rican community groups taking matters hands. xiomara caro-diaz lawyer activist overseeing 15 community groups island leading recovery efforts say government falling short. al jazeera's shihab rattansi spoke caro-diaz capital san juan progress made, trump's response lies ahead devastated us territory. al jazeera: work extension hurricane? xiomara caro-diaz : well, way it's deepening already, it's also urgency come it. it's like veil lifted puerto rico it's world see poverty already existed means terms poor infrastructure, impact hurricane magnitude. end, feels like hurricane beginning, happened afterwards feels like we're still middle storm. al jazeera: connections austerity measures already way what's happening result hurricane? caro-diaz : puerto rico $72bn [in] debt, that's directly connected economic policies congress passed allowed specific industries like pharmaceutical industry, made millions billions dollars puerto rico. time, infrastructure suffers. [these industries] don't pay taxes. so, place historically kept poor, used make billions dollars extract wealth, time time, infrastructure goes people's homes, don't make enough money cement home, impact much worse. also goes extent happens roads, electricity. made much money industries, [but] nothing left behind? al jazeera: donald trump says wants forgive puerto rico's debt. make that? caro-diaz : i'd like see paper. think donald trump someone difficult trust, came ridiculed people puerto rico. embarrassing watch governor laugh [trump] making jokes puerto rico, even diminishing amount people lost amount deaths we've had, haven't even counted for. that's true, want see paper. source: al jazeera news hurricane humanitarian crises poverty & development puerto rico united states
train built china arrives nairobi [thomas mukoya/reuters] stalled indonesian rail project insurgency-threatened economic corridor pakistan , china's push revive silk road trade routes running problems risk tarnishing economic crown jewel xi jinping 's presidency. "one belt, one road" initiative, unveiled xi 2013, envisages linking china africa, asia europe network ports, railways, roads industrial parks. xi, powerful chinese leader decades, pushed infrastructure drive central goal extending beijing's economic geopolitical influence. initiative enshrined communist party's constitution key congress last month, estimates say $1 trillion pledged it, projects proposed 65 countries. but, ground, run problems. projects traverse insurgency-hit areas, dictatorships chaotic democracies, face resistance corrupt politicians local villagers. "building infrastructure across countries like complicated," said murray hiebert, washington think-tank, center strategic international studies (csis), studied projects southeast asia. "you've got land issues, hammer funding agreements, hammer technological issues." chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying, however, insisted initiative "moving forward smoothly". troubled train line beijing contract build indonesia 's first high-speed railway september 2015, but, two years later, work barely started route jakarta city bandung. recent visit walini, president joko widodo broke ground train line january last year, found excavators flattening land track laid train, meant start operating 2019. "the first year ground-breaking ceremony, see progress all," neng sri, 37-year-old food stall owner nearby mandala mukti village, told afp. central problem persuading villagers leave land proposed route, often issue chaotic, freewheeling democracy. indonesian transport ministry declined give update project, consortium chinese indonesian companies building line respond repeated requests comment. another planned, high-speed line southern china singapore , thai stretch railway delayed tussles financing protective labour regulations, july military government finally approved $5.2bn start construction. work way 415 kilometre (260 mile) part line laos , staunch ally beijing. but, even there, project stoked controversy due huge price tag - $5.8bn, roughly half country's 2015 gross domestic product - question extent gain laos, deeply poor, make project. lopsided gains concerns many countries much benefit one belt, one road initiatives. gains china, access key markets tackling overcapacity domestic industries, often obvious partners. worries bedevilled projects central asia, part potential route western china europe . include free trade zone horgos china-kazakh border, notable flashy malls chinese side relatively little kazakh side, planned railway uzbekistan stalled large part due opposition kyrgyzstan , line would run. "i railway stands financial benefits could accrue kyrgyzstan accrue (china uzbekistan) instead," said timur saralayev, head bishkek-based new generation movement. china-pakistan economic corridor (cpec), $54bn project launched 2013 linking western china indian ocean via pakistan, targeted separatist rebels balochistan province, blown gas pipelines trains attacked chinese engineers. chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua insisted one belt, one road initiative enjoyed broad support. "we seen support approval projects. many projects delivered tangible benefits people countries," said. view ground, however, always positive. "the high-speed train ... super busy people think time money," said villager sri, lives next indonesian rail project. "we rushing go anywhere." source: afp news agency china silk road poverty & development business & economy politics
pahoyan, peru - june, indigenous communities central peruvian amazon marched sweltering jungle city pucallpa condemn widespread deforestation communities commemorate amazonian victims environmental conflict. remote village pahoyan, antonio rojas shuna got word protest quickly native language, tv internet. radio bridge city indigenous communities. moises cardenas sanchez, prensa libre intercultural "our shipibo brothers inform us what's going territory environment," said rojas shuna, 53, repaired foundation flood-damaged home. age instant access digital information, radio redefining purpose isolated villages peruvian amazon, spanish second language signs climate change everywhere. pucallpa cities region, growing number indigenous activists reclaiming radio reach communities reeling environmental issues revive endangered languages. "the indigenous press send messages speak us programmes listen. feel indigenous," said limber maynas mahya, chief pahoyan, ethnic shipibo-konibo village located 15 hours boat pucallpa along ucayali river. village struggling find ways adapt deforestation, 36-year-old mahya told al jazeera. severe flooding caused pahoyan seek higher ground three times recent years. february, village road became river. community medical centre inundated waterborne illnesses spread. without help regional government, shipibo language radio programmes pucallpa allowed community broadcast struggle appeal outside world help. severe flooding caused isolated shipibo-konibo village pahoyan seek higher ground three times recent years [neil giardino/al jazeera] "radio bridge city indigenous communities," said moises cardenas sanchez, host environmental programme prensa libre intercultural, one nearly dozen shipibo-language radio programmes pucallpa. run local station pucallpa, shipibo radio activists reaching hundreds thousands city remote communities part amazon in-studio broadcasting, testimonies field, recent integration live media podcasting urban audiences. scruffy motorcycle taxi drivers young mothers, teachers indigenous youth leaders. urban migrants isolated communities pahoyan. pahoyan resident antonio rojas shuna tunes shipibo-language broadcasts information city [neil giardino/al jazeera] environmental ngo global witness labels peru fourth deadliest country planet environmental activist, least 57 murdered since 2002. 2014, four ashaninka indigenous environmental leaders murdered ucayali department defending land illegal logging - practice yield twice profit legal counterpart. despite risks speaking practices, sanchez peers take politically charged topics narco-trafficking, illegal mining, expansion palm oil plantations. moises cardenas sanchez june broadcast shipibo-konibo environmental radio programme. despite risks, discusses illegal logging narco-trafficking peruvian amazon [neil giardino/al jazeera] "we put risk talking climate change transnational logging companies coming communities. don't defend communities, will?" sanchez asks. shipibo community, called caimito, lost thousands hectares ancestral land recent years owing state appropriation, listening, said. "i'm conscious fact nobody pays radio, born community knew would one day serve," radio host said. ruth ventura's indigenous language radio programme reaches thousands isolated communities central peruvian amazon [neil giardino/al jazeera] ruth ventura co-host environmental justice programme called radio informativo feconau (federation native communities ucayali affluents), broadcasts shipinol - mixture shipibo spanish. programme drives voice young indigenous women, said. "i give perspective, give opinion. speak i'm voice well, that's important role," said 28-year-old mother teacher. ' we've fight earn place radio' inclusion always norm. shipibo radio pioneer glorioso castro martinez break wall discrimination early 1980s got start. indigenous language programmes, said, given airtime. great power make cultural identity, territories, traditional knowledge, medicinal plants known. glorioso castro martinez, shipibo radio pioneer "we've fight earn place radio. now, young people coming new programmes it's allowed us keep going. i'm alone," said. programme, voz de la selva, focuses environment devotes time shipibo music, art, culture well. "we great power make cultural identity, territories, traditional knowledge, medicinal plants known," said martinez, 54. timing might right martinez peers indigenous communication cast wider net. revival affirmation peru's indigenous cultures languages reached national consciousness recent years, quechua language tv radio airing capital, lima. wilder rodriguez gonzalez, indigenous language communication specialist ministry education, sees shipibo radio movement pucallpa scrappy full potential, noted lacks cohesion. "they need take step further. proper training organisation, start reaching national audience," said. now, hitting target reaching roughly 30,000 shipibo speakers left world, aim orienting driving action communities. indigenous radio pioneer activist glorioso castro martinez rally pucallpa, june 5, 2017 [neil giardino/al jazeera] back pahoyan, alberto franchini silvano sat porch, turning fm dial portable radio. static cleared voice shipibo discussed illegal logging. "our shipibo ancestors never problems," said 50-year-old elementary school teacher, hint hopelessness voice. recently begun teaching students obligation protect forests. "when hear programmes language makes want stand something it," said. source: al jazeera author neil giardino @ neilgiardino environment peru climate sos science & technology latin america
gender divisions start young age. children picture depict characters story [getty images] boys' voices getting louder. argument best design sampling probe devolved argument who's idea "just really stupid". sat science class, surrounded lego table designed eighth graders, listening preoccupied argument. mind elsewhere, fascinated girl team, something remarkable. presence classroom two decades ago result nearly two-year journey. anthropology student college charleston, designed project try understand high attrition rate underrepresented students mathematics science. idea: problem-based learning cooperative teams, rather lecture-based competitive approaches common schools. class would choose semester-long problem mission solve problem, including "success" meant. illustrate variety work, collaboration teamwork go science, stipulation define cooperative teams. "our team going best," one boy first class immediately announced. "then fail," responded gravely. "this science works," said class. "there final exam here. mission. succeed mission, pass. team thinks it's best another team fails, mission fails. mission fails, every one fails class." grave message give eighth graders. also rather audacious project one took convincing institute. first school principal brought laughed office, telling return degree understanding teach children. fair criticism, short-sighted. problem-based learning certainly nothing new late 1990s, yet enter gestalt south carolina school system. quickly, began feel like mythical cassandra, holder important truth one would believe. time time again, rejected, knew deep place unknown untested truths known need test, idea would work, undaunted. all, i'm american. heroes - history fiction - dominantly men (we're keen women) whatever crazy thing wanted do, despite everyone telling to. read more: luke cage - black boy became superhero fighting system united states loves underdog, dissenter fights stupidity, oppression, arises, last, victorious (and completely unaware collateral damage). tale instilled us canon many us know read. it's basically us' origin story. faced rejection "the system," simply fought system harder. finally, middle school charleston suburb gave spot first class. class, enthralled current news mars pathfinder, chose similar project. created teams research, public relations, funding, logistics, team sitting argument: robotics. robotics team consisted three boys one girl, kristen valles*, joined team despite fact "couldn't help much [she didn't] know anything robots". kristen absorbed watching. argument devolved "your idea stupid" "you're stupid". backdrop invective, kristen pulled oddly shaped lego pieces boxes table. thought simply playing, lego equivalent doodling, leaned back silently tested working sampling probe designed fundamentally differently anything boys arguing about. looked boys see realised happened, oblivious actions indeed presence. looked back kristen, silently deconstructing work. sat quietly waited argument end. four classes three years, gender acculturation would play many times one could think staged. two boys together, would argue right. every boy lived american cassandra myth, sure held truth, ready fight victorious, despite collateral damage. girls, contrast, would often solve problem. common girls suggest try another person's design try - tactic thought based confidence other's failure (with remarkable slowness) recognised actually efficient way avoid argument giving another person voice, simultaneously testing solutions find best. heart, science engineering right, solving problems. looked though girls obviously better strategy solving problems. boy's core competency seemed fighting. read more: 50 cent, johnny cash history hip-hop diversity inclusion recently, one argumentative boys - one former students, although could easily - wrote manifesto google challenging diversity inclusion initiatives. many analyses already written think nail coffin lid horse carcass. i'm rather interested broader response itself. text, one sentence, particular, struck me: "when comes diversity inclusion, google's left bias created politically correct monoculture maintains hold shaming dissenters silence." here, again, see beloved origin story: brave dissenter, challenging stupidity oppression. unfortunately lovers story, truth much mundane, uncomfortable. ironic google would seen politically correct monoculture. company something like two percent black embroiled legal battle us department labor "discrimination women [that] quite extreme, even industry". google alone, merely toeing party line supposed left-leaning silicon valley, hi-tech centre apparently specialises creation headlines everything sexual harassment employees paid little forced live garages. lest criticise silicon valley alone, simply toeing california's party line, banned affirmative action programmes late 1990s destroyed minority college enrollment rates, effectively removing hope solving supposed "pipeline problem". california, meanwhile, really following great american standard. biggest success aspects diversity self-congratulatory suggestion look "how much better 50 years ago". it's understandable manifesto's author would see things way. many question diversity rarely conscious homogeneity immediate surroundings. tragic cassandra feels shamed monoculture populated almost entirely us' holy trinity: straight, white male. would comically ironic, weren't frustrating. doubt author surrounded groupthink liberals whose knee-jerk reaction mob-like ostracism. black american knows scene mundane american drama. overlap racist realities liberal demographics generations old points uncomfortable truth liberals often find easy ignore. sadly, "diversity" new "politically correct," know disaster become. intended way learn modicum cultural sensitivity became wretched assurance white people said african american instead black, racist - despite actual thoughts actions. many white people's understanding never gets "what's right word call negroes now?" much hear "politically correct" result one white person telling another white person "the right word is," nervous ask, worse, unconcerned learn anything people talking about. read more: identity lie? 'genetic differences' diversity easily live similar existence check mark white america's to-do list follows similar methodology white men wanting feel good without inviting anyone else room. scanning news articles medium posts google manifesto illustrates danger. one immediately notices overwhelming number white male responses focusing author done. contrast (fewer) number responses women, focus experiences. would agree probably echo chamber google, seriously doubt echoing anything us' status quo. juxtaposition stated core values espoused google's senior leadership stunning lack diversity employment allows willingly blind observers trust motives. impossible thinking person believe company whose core competency essentially "the ability find anything" would totally stumped find single black engineer. reasonable conclusion real desire so. letters birmingham jail, martin luther king jr shamed white moderate, liberal mind sided oppressed concept, little help - even obstructed - progress. similar see much liberal america, certainly much technology industry. diversity nice idea concept, wait "a convenient season" - season likely company's exit strategy possibly settlement sexual harassment lawsuit. agree king's frustration white moderate. least manifesto author - proxy, conservative establishment - honest lack concern achieving real equity underrepresented groups. like king, would rather deal absolute misunderstanding shallow understanding much liberal america. former least unfair fight might labour make fair. dylann roof killed nine innocent people emanuel ame church charleston, liberal white america quick condemn evil individual, indicative broader social construct. confederate flag flying south carolina statehouse meant nothing. mass incarceration black men generations meant nothing. generations redlining home ownership liberal white communities meant nothing. liberals asked it, never asking "why allowed this?" liberal white america saw dylann roof other, abhorrent unlike every way. yet outcome much america - even liberal america - promotes yet shirks responsibility for. dylann roof extremist supported much soft silence liberals racist uncles share christmas table openly oppose fear might make holiday dinner uncomfortable. see similar disingenuousness outcry manifesto. willingly blind honestly expected anything less? so, it's remarkable easy condemn evil use avoid facing responsibility society created work maintain. opinions manifesto assurance "they certainly reflect core values" core american conceits. anthropology research three years, nearly eighth-grade girls interviewed indicated good science mathematics - even planning choose career. girls decided would simply work harder or, words one heartbreaking response, "maybe good, still best". contrast, boys thought good maths science. even point, boys thought girls good boys maths science. let sink in: age 10, us successfully conditioned boys assume girls can't maths science, least well can. suggesting women aren't suited hi-tech jobs "genetic differences" something one 10-year-old boys would written. girls aren't good, it's innate, big deal. author little mindless drone thoughtlessly promoting core message american cultural machine. yet knee-jerk reaction condemn evil manifesto author sleep well knowing lack representation support underrepresented groups nothing whatsoever actions lack thereof. google's solution fire him, make weak statement "core values," get back working discrimination lawsuit. rather ostracise martyrdom, i'd rather manifesto ignored - used example teach 10-year-old boys - move forward actually hard work social equality should, obviously not, doing. least, stop dramatically shouting wrongness don't implicitly support fundamental position atmosphere gave publication. unless you're brown-skinned lesbian without trust fund, need admit skin game. even i, straight male, complicit. made clear two decades even written way embarrassed girl team thoughtlessly calling front classmates. "not one saw kristen did," said, stupidly unaware discomfort. "while arguing, built design better yours. kristen, take apart?" "they arguing," said, "so thought designs better." none were, willing fight. one eventually chosen, boy designed confident, assertive, kept fighting. end, kristen voted design, too. that's tragic lesson never meant teach: beneficiaries cultural biases. us, argues loudest longest reigns victorious, regardless collateral damage. *name changed john metta bachelor's degrees geology anthropology master's degrees geography ecological engineering. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera news author john metta john metta writer racial issues us. @ johnmetta united states racism science & technology
medellin , colombia - gladys betancur piedrahita young girl growing coffee farm andes mountain town angostura colombia , grandmother fell ill. gladys watched mother aunt care mother died. soon after, gladys' aunt developed mysterious illness. suffered three years until, age 38, passed away. then, decade ago, gladys' mother, magnolia, started exhibit familiar symptoms. first, magnolia repeated stories, telling four five times. flung food buried it. left house wandered around, lost. soft-spoken woman, turned, without warning, wildly aggressive. gladys , 37, recognised signs. mother, like family members, early-onset alzheimer's disease. gladys' hometown one handful colombia's rugged state antioquia many residents - possibly area's remoteness fostered generations intermarriage - genetic mutation chromosome causes early onset alzheimer's. result one parent disease, child 50 percent chance developing it. gladys speaks lucia madrigal, nurse, condition mother carer years. hometown angostura one handful towns remote colombian region antioquia highest concentration genetic mutation causes early onset alzheimer's [sruthi gottipati/al jazeera] scientific laboratory parts world, one know get alzheimer's single gene identified causing it. certainty getting disease carry mutation made region scientific laboratory sorts, offering something place - possible answer prevent disease strikes millions around world. medellin, capital antioquia, home multi-million-dollar drug trial researchers enrolled residents find solution early-onset alzheimer's, hope eventually able prevent late life form disease well. "we noticed families generations people sick," says lucia madrigal, 64, nurse who, along neurologist, first began researching alzheimer's area. "so started studying them. question was, happens people? happened many generations family sick?" although men women chances getting alzheimer's , disease known toll exacts caregivers, burden care colombia, like elsewhere world, typically falls women - wives, mothers, daughters, aunts - cope caring families even know loved ones, themselves, face frightening odds. research facility university antioquia races time find preventive solution - fourth year clinical trial four years go - families, alzheimer's already reality. caring dawn dusk gladys never stops working. routine calcified - relentless march dawn dusk, day day out. sends two daughters - one work, school - settles daily care routine magnolia, aged 59. gladys fixes breakfast, bathes her, begins physiotherapy, includes massaging skin. watch indonesian social workers rescue elderly people alzheimer's abandoned families "i take day nice put bed prepare lunch," explains. gladys single-handedly lifts magnolia chair feed her, careful hurt mother's spine process. "physically, it's hard she's rigid." afternoon, therapy gladys prepares dinner, cleans house takes care pets (three cats two dogs). puts mother bed 8:30pm. "mentally, makes depressed, start getting used it." gladys used run grocery store, mother fell sick, quickly realised taking care magnolia would full-time job. although gladys two sisters brother could help, keep jobs help financially. "one us stop working, decided one [to] that," gladys says. "it obligation," quickly adds. "it wish so." sold store sells cosmetic products catalogue neighbours relatives home. clinical trials last time gladys took day year half ago. sisters volunteered take magnolia day. " relaxed slept late," says. "i went cinema, went hike went eat daughter." magnolia returned, sicker usual. gladys believes change temperature - windier neighbourhood - taken hospital. incident convinced gladys never let mother sight. "the caregiver often alone, dedicating 24 hours day sick person," lucia, nurse, explains. "they strong physical mental burden day day." time gladys apart mother brother go participate clinical trial, trip rushes every 15 days. "i hope study results. really dedicated it," says. "i don't want daughters go this." either daughters hold gene, gladys would it. doesn't know whether - none clinical trial participants told do. doesn't allow believe may get alzheimer's even though siblings face coin flip odds. despite seeing sickness ravage mother every day, "you live disease try think disease," says. "it's worse knowing knowing." despite alzheimer's, household women laughter visit june, gladys' younger daughter, angie lizeth rojo betancur, 16 years old, due give birth week - boy. right now, "it's women house," gladys points out. gladys' daughter angie lizeth rojo betancur, 16, photographed week due give birth son, male all-female household [sruthi gottipati/al jazeera] gladys , moved medellin married, separated husband three years ago. father, sold coffee farm country, also lives city another house. father, says, h never helped mother, care cash. "he never even changed diaper," gladys says. "i brought three years ago, he's come twice see her." lives alone house. contrast, gladys' home, sits steep slope, filled jokes, animals - laughter. magnolia, propped wheelchair wearing hoodie living room, caresses one cats curled lap. gladys bends scratch magnolia's nose. "i know itches," says; gladys recognises magnolia's telltale gesture. angie, sits dining table eating chocolate biscuit glass milk, recalls grandmother affectionate. earliest memory changing magnolia, already showing signs alzheimer's, spanked seven eight years old. angie stunned magnolia's behaviour said felt better going workshops alzheimer's research facility, explained disease's symptoms her. angie, studying chemical engineer, says wouldn't able manage baby weren't family. behind her, gladys folds refolds magnolia's limbs keep supple props head fluffy lime-green pillow. carers get alzheimer's piedrahita family's story echoes others' antioquia. consuela de las mercedes valencia mora, 69, warm, chatty grandmother close-cropped hair, says grew angostura surrounded cattle, sugar cane dread seeing unknown disease spread tentacles claim friends neighbours. "everyone would say, 'oh, one going die stupidity' didn't know disease was," says. consuela lost numerous family members alzheimer's [sruthi gottipati/al jazeera] consuela , four sisters, says one two sisters died alzheimer's 14 children, four disease, six others already died it. says four remaining siblings unlikely get disease since they're past age - typically 30s 40s - people start showing symptoms particular mutation. "when call say somebody died, say, 'thank god, it's okay. it's horrible disease'," says. "this worse aids cancer." it's especially tough caregivers, adds. "in every family see, ask: 'who taking care person?' it's always wives daughters, people get sick themselves." gladys' darkest, bleakest moments - seeing alzheimer's sever arms family tree - taps wellspring emotion fortify resolve. "the love children gives lot strength love mum always gave us," says. "if sick person father, would've difficult never us." living room, magnolia faces street wheelchair, sunlight pouring door windows. gladys heats milk tea. one dogs settles near feet. "the female dog, learned everything cat," gladys notes fondness. "so licks behaves like cat." sruthi gottipati reported fellowship international reporting project . source: al jazeera author sruthi gottipati independent journalist editor based paris. latin america colombia health science & technology
amanda hawes, left, speaks maria, cuban coffee worker resembles spanish professor, justina ruiz de conde, hawes says inspired become lawyer [photo courtesy amanda hawes] january 21, day donald trump sworn 45th president united states , women around world marched "for human rights, civil liberties, social justice all" - concepts feared might endangered trump administration. among marching san jose blustery january day veteran occupational health lawyer amanda hawes. hawes carried sign read "super callow fragile ego trump atrocious" play words classic mary poppins tune. image sign went viral. 73-year-old harvard law school graduate walked hi-tech corridors silicon valley past 43 years. time, taken tech giants, representing electronics workers - many immigrants children immigrants mexico central america, philippines, china , iran, azores, vietnam cambodia - who, course work, exposed toxic chemicals linked cancer, autoimmune disorders diseases. occupational health lawyer amanda hawes san jose's women's march january 21 [photo courtesy mercury news] "over past 40 years, represented hundreds electronics workers workers' compensation claims, scores children electronics workers civil litigation seeking compensation developmental harm, hundred families impacted water contamination so-called 'clean industry'," said hawes, referring term sometimes used electronics industry. 1977, cofounded santa clara center occupational safety health (sccosh). "from 1978 1980, grant us labor department, sccosh staff research chemical radiation hazards electronics manufacturing, made information available english, spanish tagalog, including fact sheets booklets, ran hotline electronics workers call questions information wanted share," explained. "sccosh provided scientific data support california-wide worker campaign ban degreasing solvent tce (trichloroethylene) workplace press better controls 1,1,1-trichloroethane (tca) so-called 'safe substitute' tce." price innovation midst technology revolution shows sign slowing down, cases pursued hawes suggest humanity may paying heavy price innovation. "there's little manufacturing occurring silicon valley, time," hawes explained. "some claims i've pursuing recently come work experiences they've (the workers) many, many years ago ... "a lot work i've behalf electronics workers whose children exposed utero, (the children) often chronologically adults mentally that's never going be. they're never going independent life, capacity support basically, things everybody hopes children." ted smith, founder silicon valley toxics coalition (svtc), hawes's partner co-author of, challenging chip: labor rights environmental justice global electronics industry . described greatest health, environmental labour concerns associated tech industry disregard shown places e-waste dumped burned, migration hi-tech facilities impoverished countries worker protection weak, ongoing health repercussions manufacturing workers dealing toxic chemicals. e-waste refers electronic items, parts items, need disposed of, including mobile devices, tablets, computers, televisions others. silicon valley tech hubs continue send majority e-waste developing countries, attempts keep factories "clean". e-waste incorrectly disposed of, poisonous hydrocarbons released air heavy metals leak soil. pollutants travel long distances, affecting people thousands miles away. chemicals seep soil disposed, become intrinsically linked global food chain, animals consume food, inhale air drink water come contact toxic materials. power, profit 'planned obsolescence' hawes, smith, svtc, centers disease control prevention (cdc) numerous organisations, nonprofit governmental , fought workers' occupational health rights decades. why, then, change still seem evasive? planned obsolescence industry ignorance high list, said hawes smith. kyle wiens, cofounder wiki-based tech repair salvage site ifixit , gave example intentional obsolescence: "every cellphone i've ever had, pop back ... every year two, replace battery. apple decided ipod iphone don't like model. building batteries phone using proprietary screws [an] attempt limit lifespan phone 18 months - around time new phone want buy new one anyway." al jazeera put claim "planned obsolescence" apple received response representatives. rapid change doesn't mean e-waste also creates rushed innovation environment many chemicals trialled tested adequately health safety requirements, said svtc. "some chemicals used clean computer electronic products, degrease them, they've got prior history anaesthetic gasses," explained hawes. "that doesn't mean they're safe. means pay attention happened workers around anaesthetic gasses [as example]. suffered reproductive harm well documented 1960s 1970s industry went ahead used vast quantities chemicals never thing." first sign adverse reproductive effects electronics industry chemicals emerged silicon valley 1982. state health department identified cluster cardiac birth defects neighbourhood served well contaminated waste solvents, including aforementioned tca, unsafely stored site fairchild ibm. solvents seeped porous soil well. high rate spontaneous abortion among women working industry also discovered. hawes said much done since try combat issues. " one team lawyers represented many families whose water contaminated solvents large case resolved 1986," said. "the aftermath water contamination problem involved massive clean-up efforts, site sites across valley - costly way proving obvious benefits preventing harm first place. mid-1980s, sccosh svtc mounted campaign get glycol ethers - family solvents identified reproductive developmental hazards - phased manufacturing. hawes says industry resisted, campaigns persisted. " years, despite efforts keep regulators bay, progress identifying chemicals pose reproductive developmental threat requiring effective disclosures aspect toxicity, eg california's proposition 65 adopted mid-1980s, california right-to-know laws 1981 federal hazard communication right-to-know law 1986. hawes currently involved movement encourage industry commit using materials demonstrably free risks health workers prospective offspring. "this called life cycle approach chemicals management, opinion, guiding principle chemical-using industries," explained. cost failing prevent harm hawes believes complex regulation system varying standards different chemicals, combinations chemicals, makes dealing cases damage done difficult. "... people, they're exposed hazards work, it's single chemical, it's usually entire group, maybe multiple solvents heavy metals. that's terrible mixture. standards, chemical chemical. you're working group materials, standards really aren't going protect you, even might adequate one situation ... there's huge discrepancy," said. svtc believes lack interest education prevention heart tech industry's problems toxic e-waste occupational health safety. cost prevention, says hawes, significantly lower cost environment tech firms preventing use dangerous chemicals. "where's motivation become fully informed provide safe work environment?" asked hawes. "there [in 1970s 1980s] plenty information, serious efforts make available employers, could [use their] influence [to enforce standards regarding] responsibility provide safe workplaces." "how stopped short providing workplaces free risk, reproductive harm, long-term illness ... situations, pretty strong resistance [from tech firms] government regulating industry, are, we're technologically cutting edge. could better that? "we incomplete health safety enforcement structure. much want effective, it's stretched thin," hawes said. 'it breaks heart' yvette flores son, mark, evidence this. speaking makers of, death design , documentary investigates deadly health environmental costs tech industry, flores described experience working laser giant spectra-physics, mountain view, california, 1970s. recalled working daily unknown substance nicknamed "green gunk". hawes, represented flores, said substance was, fact, poisonous chemical called "frit". "yvette didn't know material using probably vicinity 50 percent lead oxide. didn't know exposed lead. didn't tell that," hawes explained. "in late 1970s, 'right know' laws could invoked learn reproductive developmental hazards job late." flores case resolved going trial. flores's son mark, 37, born severe developmental disabilities. flores said unable cross street use toilet independently. "if knew know now, would've ran spectra-physics time. unnecessary. breaks heart could've avoided this," reflected. don't fair standards workers first place. dismantling environmental standards predictor would do. they're also, simply put, enforcing fundamental health safety standards....i don't think that's ever going change. amanda hawes, occupational health lawyer 'time's up' tech industry march 13, white house released first preliminary budget trump. notable changes deep cuts us science environmental agency budgets, including environmental protection agency (epa). 31 percent cut followed closely heels former oklahoma attorney general scott pruitt's assignment role epa's new leader. pruitt's track record attorney general included attempts repeatedly sue epa items environmental protection put forward obama administration. hawes said fears "dismantling environmental standards predictor what" trump administration may do, issue start end trump administration. "we don't fair standards workers first place," said. hawes explained motivates her: " would imagine viewed [by tech electronics companies] 'thorn side' something like that. around 1980, lawyer one semiconductor firm brought workers' compensation claims told company president 'couldn't understand one harvard graduate could another'." "if help you're accomplishing everybody entitled ... safe jobs, healthy families, universal." message tech industry: "y ou don't want hear it, answer grew it, ignored time's up." special series death design function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5617299717001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news author reem shaddad health united states environment science & technology
protesters make way seattle centre march science seattle april 22 [reuters/david ryder] today, scientists nationwide across globe taking streets defence science. weeks leading march, social media news abuzz questions scientists marching en masse: finally spurred researchers leave labs march defence work? march political? (the organisers confirm that, yes, political also insist non-partisan.) march becoming political talking diversity "injecting identity politics" field ostensibly need address issues right now? political enough failing grapple larger societal problems affect marginalised scientists communities? video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5407650744001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5407650744001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > people power change political anti-science agenda? - inside story pageloadedsuccessfully questions how, when, scientists engage politics continue linger minds, march science unequivocally shown scientists longer afford "apolitical". perhaps accurately, specific segment scientific community discovered they, too, must invested politics. trump administration defunding national institute health, issuing gag orders centres disease control prevention, us department agriculture environmental protection agency, demanding removal data federal websites, many scientists realised years education research threatened. loss funding, inability communicate findings public, devaluing science education research, ignoring scientific evidence impinge scientists' ability ask questions workings universe expand human knowledge. short, scientists increasingly unable science . such, march less march science march freedom value science . differentiating "marching science" "scientists marching" perhaps crux march science organisers criticised marginalised scientists failing inclusive. many scientists felt work threatened undermined 2017, many others - decades - historically marginalised backgrounds. unfortunately, voices marginalised people within stem dismissed organising march science within academia within society large, emphasising yet marginalised scientists' concerns viewed "real issues" attack. #marginsci hashtag twitter - started dr stephani page -scientists colour, lgbtq scientists, disabled scientists, scientists live intersections various identities shared personal experiences marginalised person field scientists share similar experiences discrimination far between. shortage stories feeling unwelcome within professions, struggling secure funding, published, pursue achieve tenure. outside lab fieldwork, marginalised scientists must also grapple societal-level issues directly affect lives, health, safety ways many colleagues never worry about. environment marginalised scientists long raised concerns diversity inclusion within science, technology, engineering, mathematics (stem) field. unfortunately, voices marginalised people within stem dismissed organising march science within academia within society large, emphasising yet marginalised scientists' concerns viewed "real issues" attack. clear, science threat. science merely tool understanding universe, scientific method allows us observable reproducible ways. one prohibiting us asking questions, forming hypotheses, testing hypotheses, collecting analysing data, ultimately interpreting data confirm reject hypotheses. science - process, tool - existed since time immemorial continue exist long humans do. naturally curious species, amount legislation, lack funding, science denial prevent us continuing seek knowledge. science exist long people it. best science comes inclusive scientific community - one marginalised scientists valued "diversity hire", one freedom ask new different questions informed perspectives world. scientific community sees role society responsible people communities, especially marginalised ones. scientific community exist march science also march larger issues justice - things scientists would consider "out interest" directly impact marginalised colleagues. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5407381793001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5407381793001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > us scientists concerned budget cuts pageloadedsuccessfully would mean scientists march black lives? mean insist technologies develop used police black communities contribute prison industrial complex? would mean scientists affirm "mni wiconi" - water life? stand standing rock defend sacred lands protect environment oil spills continued reliance fossil fuels? would look like scientists marched defend researchers' right whistle blow water poisoned, dr mona hanna-attisha, also defend clean water human right demand immediate action response? march science microcosm scientific community, microcosm society large. if, instead marching freedom science, scientists marched freedom - freedom racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, islamophobia, xenophobia, ableism society, result freedom science? imagine new knowledge discovered new technologies made! freedom without justice. march, let us march science justice. perhaps ironically, march organisers got right posted january now-deleted tweet : "colonization, racism, immigration, native rights, sexism, ableism, queer-, trans-, intersex-phobia & econ justice scientific issues". dorothy charles medical student perelman school medicine university pennsylvania organiser white coats black lives. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author dorothy charles dorothy charles medical student perelman school medicine upenn. @ dn_charles science & technology united states us & canada racism
jobs disappearing, incomes retreating, precariat growing. thousands people risk lives stormy seas flee wars, moribund economies climate change daily basis. traditional politicians continue avoid publicly addressing tsunami unemployment , apparently baffled react historic transition: automation critical masses labour performed humans. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4259540684001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4259540684001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > people power: tech threat (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully five acronyms - ai, ar, vr, bc ubi - promise shape developed world's future solve problems present. process, however, innovations risk transforming world around us, upsetting humanity's definition itself. artificial intelligence (ai) series algorithms designed improve performance robots making possible learn surroundings. ai increasingly autonomises formerly human-managed objects like cars factory assembly lines, displaces millions workers employed repetitive jobs like driving assembling products, white-collar employees, too. internet things expanding physical realm, you'll find encountering ai-enhanced objects often, especially service industries. replacing humans robotic transactions delivered unthreatening lilts, ai contribute de-socialisation, feed self-absorption narcissism fuelled internet-powered consumerism. read more: could artificial intelligence lead world peace? augmented reality (ar) overlay information onto naked world, earning wearers social, professional edges sticking boring old reality. soon, augmenting surroundings become essential cellphone want participate employed living. projectors screens done away spreadsheets calendars "shared" colleagues work meetings superimposing reality. augmented reality (ar) overlay information onto naked world, earning wearers social, professional edges sticking boring old reality, writes athanasiadis [getty] nanobot implants connect journalists internet, allowing dispense cameras use eyes ears film interviews, perform real-time background checks people met. soldiers view aerial perspectives complex they're assault, streamed hovering drones, supporting engineers thousands miles away broadcast 3d immersive designs complex occupants direct soldiers' vision. later, soldiers replaced agile robots, debate permissibility lethal killing machines arguing using conveniently dehumanised "terrorists". opinion: rebellion invisible tyrant - internet element surprise enchantment everyday life - indispensable part human missing someone feeling melancholy - even retrenched, replaced accumulating, awkward time-outs: motionless figures public spaces, apparently present, absorbed private, incommunicable world. soon, turning computer fishing phone pocket longer precondition online. potentially, greatest game-changer blockchain (bc). leverages power online distributed ledger system creating all-encompassing, entirely interconnected digital grid used assess participants staggering tally issues. though open authoritarian abuse, tool would also enable individuals delink arbitrariness nation-state organising principle. bc could used assess environmental footprint completely possible opens door new forms democracy, abolition banks intermediaries, new global taxation system based income impact planet earth. supplementary technologies ambient computing - always-on, hands-off computing peripherals allow speech-powered typing automatic forms identification - premised context permanent activity. soon, turning computer fishing phone pocket longer precondition online. real virtual escape routes millions people - mostly older, unskilled monolinguals - find thrust world nothing surplus collateral damage ongoing technological sprint, may come depend another two, just-round-the-corner innovations cushion obsolescence: universal basic income (ubi) providing participants, whether employed not, guaranteed salary; seductively immersive worlds virtual reality (vr). ai increasingly autonomises formerly human-managed objects like cars factory assembly lines, displaces millions workers employed repetitive jobs like driving assembling products, writes athanasiadis [getty] ubi already thing, trials running continents aside australia antarctica. switzerland put idea referendum last year, wealthy citizens rejected fear introducing guaranteed income would lead country overrun immigrants. ubi contains several dangers, including risk hardening societies' current inequality irreversible orthodoxy, used pretext scrap state-provided health services forms welfare. opinion: artificial intelligence delete nationalism finally, vr, widely-available technologies. hailed reality-suspending innovation exceeding even invention moving image, poised go mainstream year. drowning digital tumult video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5018101934001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5018101934001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: what's future driverless cars? (24:49) pageloadedsuccessfully despite sizzling pace change, apparent sense urgency, panic quickly hurtling towards future. even start checking fully-automated hotels, transported driverless cars, even choosing robots sexual spiritual succour, voices questioning scarce public debate mark momentous innovations appear puny drowned-out digital tumult. anyone ask social consequences discarding significant sections society less efficient robots are? cannot adapt react realisation that, rather failed individuals, belong powerful, potentially disruptive constituencies numbering hundreds millions? ethical frontiers humanity trespass upon elites afford engineer selves descendants immune disease fatigue? make elections great dominant economic system first shoves millions people margins society, sweeps edge, must recognise new technologies used radically transform already dysfunctional way conduct economic, ecological electoral affairs: constructively (blockchain replace quadrennial elections conduct hack-proof referendums myriad issues affecting us) destructively (the psychological damage caused absolute immersion virtual worlds attractive users jobless realities; human psychology redefined work longer defining motivation one's existence; potential ai autonomously advance threatening directions humanity). virtual reality poised go mainstream year [getty] time ecological meltdown, worth taking two steps back questioning whether planet sustain eight billion people aspiring consumerist lifestyle economic system premised devouring natural resources. extraordinarily powerful technological tools currently development leveraged reduce inequality increased internet era, minimising impact environment? holding debate hardly interest making wild, tax-free savings substituting machines humans. it's unsurprising kind politicians supported transnational business lobbies continue misleading constituencies feel-good narratives appeal two shrivelling realities: national, religious ethnic identities increasingly irrelevant globalised world, illusory promise return 20th century-style economic health. long critical masses voters continue imbibing narratives self-actualised, empowered individualism able honestly debate consequences technology bringing upon us. iason athanasiadis mediterraneanist based istanbul tunis. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author iason athanasiadis iason athanasiadis award-winning photojournalist covers middle east. @ iason11 science & technology
supporter opposition leader raila odinga gestures front burned barricade kibera slum nairobi, kenya [goran tomasevic/reuters] little week since kenyans took ballot elect representatives leaders next five years. friday evening, independent electoral boundaries commission declared president uhuru kenyatta winner presidential race. friday night ushered tense weekend protests riots, particularly opposition strongholds. media reports scant left many yearning updates. weekend wore on, became clear well kenya . opposition coalition, press statement saturday, claimed 100 people killed police officers post election violence , kenya national commission human rights placed number 24 . video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5539801435001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5539801435001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: kenya election: 24 people killed since vote (3:28) pageloadedsuccessfully playing out, many kenyans, satisfied mainstream media's limited coverage situation, glued social media channels updates. social media users providing blow-by-blow updates events taking place around them, others amplifying reports, providing alternative supplementary commentary. majority reports coming nairobi slums kibera mathare, city kisumu opposition stronghold areas painting grim picture. however, kenya red cross secretary general, abbas gullett, interview monday, drew attention increase number "fake news" making rounds social media weekend. classified graphic footage images spread twitter , facebook whatsapp throughout weekend "misinformation" aimed "creating tension country". announced weekend organisation helped 100 people injured result post-election violence across country, dismissed social media reports night-time attacks opposition strongholds. said widely shared stories "mayhem" nairobi's mathare slum sunday night fake, explaining "they receive distress calls area." statement elicited angry reactions public, perceived dismissive many experiencing first hand reporting. read more: kenyatta odinga supporters - take complaints court cannot dismissed violent confrontations police protesters, resulted multiple deaths injuries, following announcement election result. post-election violence adequately covered traditional media organisations. however, know pictures disseminated popular kenyan social media accounts weekend allegedly showed police brutality towards protesters fake. so, constituted fake news, didn't? falsities common kenya election season? video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5532867929001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5532867929001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > listening post: fake news could shape kenya's elections (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully kenyan 'fake news' term "fake news" used widely run august 8 vote kenya, classified term playing online. facebook , whatsapp twitter perhaps three popular social media platforms kenya, used share opinions, predictions fabrications alike election. websites well, designed give impression authoritative sources news, carried sorts (mis)information propaganda. widely reported, fake news articles videos bearing cnn, bbc even ntv kenya logos also disseminated shared widely social media platforms. now, anyone internet connection tell story, version events, connect audiences may inclined (dis)agree them. create debate even create consensus. all, controversial election season kenya, distinguishing truth lie real information "fake news" difficult. misinformation propaganda around elections new kenya, tools certainly used influence voters past elections. however, election season seen migrate popular social media platforms, either play existing beliefs, fears biases, sway perceptions even votes august 8. social media go-to platform information young people, constituted half 19.6 million registered kenyan voters election. young people necessarily tune prime time news television, instance, operate real-time news dissemination system, tune out, select consume when, deem fit. is, therefore, surprising kenyan social media filled misinformation fake news, aiming alter young voters' perceptions, views actions general election. number issues, kenyan context, elsewhere, give fake news breeding ground. chief among them, view, changing tides information dissemination country. past, government, mainstream media civil society primary sources information kenya. institutions, liable accuracy information disseminate, acted barrier fake news stories. however, now, anyone internet connection tell story, version events, connect audiences may inclined (dis)agree them. create debate consensus. may felt excluded narratives put forth "traditional estates" society past, online platforms offer avenue heard counted, even alter narratives presented mainstream media outlets. reporter's notebook: kenya's elections bitterly contested? people, chance influence thousands people online, liable accuracy information put forward. purposefully spread false information "fake news" alter public's opinion certain issue, least share own, biased version truth. impunity. kenya history discrimination certain communities country still riddled injustices remain unaddressed suppressed. social media platforms allow kenyans voice grievances issues, channels also provide avenue dissemination fake news. platforms, dangerous exaggerations falsities go hand hand facts truths. also, people's perceptions experiences alter consider truthful, making even harder pinpoint indeed "fake news" not. tackling fake news widely cited survey, reality fake news kenya ( pdf ) geopoll portland communications offers useful starting point better understand perceived "fake news" kenya. defining fake news "deliberate spreading false information", study found 87 percent respondents seen information regarding election suspected "deliberately false". respondents also noted social media main platform encountered information. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5539420141001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5539420141001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: kenya's democracy danger? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully majority respondents also expressed desire find credible news sources, perhaps antidote propaganda "fake news" swept kenyan information landscape online. bid address epidemic fake news misinformation election season, communications authority kenya national cohesion integration commission issued guidelines stated "undesirable political content" would need taken within 24 hours notified platform hosting content. yet, noted takedowns per guidelines far. approach could also game whack-a-mole, taking content one platform wouldn't prevent disseminated other, hard control platforms, whatsapp telegram. even move past election season, expected misinformation continue manifest. sufficient decry "fake news" blame social media sole culprit. well assessing constitutes "fake news", need understand fake news appeals kenyans point time need honest discussion failures traditional news sources. tame kenyans appetite "fake news". nanjira sambuli researcher, policy analyst advocacy strategist interested working understanding unfolding impacts ict adoption impact governance, innovation, entrepreneurship societal culture, keen focus gender implications. currently digital equality advocacy manager web foundation, leads advocacy efforts promote digital equality access use web. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author nanjira sambuli nanjira sambuli researcher, policy analyst advocacy strategist. @ ninanjira science & technology kenya social media elections politics
eugene kaspersky, chief executive russia's kaspersky lab, founded antivirus company moscow 1997 [reuters/maxim shemetov] past 10 years made clear internet - software powers software runs top - fair game attackers. past five years made clear nobody internalised message well global intelligence community. snowden leaks pulled back curtains massive five eyes efforts regard, muted deals internet behemoths, amusing grab-all efforts like grabbing still images yahoo webcam chats. response revelations, bunch us predicted creeping fragmentation internet, people became acutely aware dependence single country software digital services. two incidents last two months caused thoughts resurface: notpetya worm, accusations russian antivirus giant kaspersky lab. quickly recap notpetya: mundane accounting package called medoc wide adoption (in ukraine ) abused infect victims. worms viruses dime dozen, things made notpetya stand out. starters, used infection vector repurposed nsa leak. seemed target ukraine pretty specifically, tangible side effects real world (maersk shipping company reported loss $200m due notpetya). interested us notpetya, however, infection vector. compromised wide open servers medoc, attackers proceeded build malicious update accounting package. update automatically downloaded applied thousands clients. auto-updates common point considered good security hygiene, it's interesting twist update becomes attack vector. kaspersky saga also touched "evil updates" tangentially. many us intelligence community long looked russian antivirus company gaining popularity us , kaspersky routinely performed well enough gain considerable market share. came head september year us department homeland security (dhs) issued directive us governmental departments remove kaspersky software computers. days followed, intriguing narrative emerged. {articleguid} according various sources, nsa employee working exploitation-and-attack tooling took work home, home computer (running kaspersky software) proceeded slurp "tagged" files. like things infosec, kicked distracting sub-drama involving israeli, russian us cyberspooks. kaspersky defenders come calling claims outrageous; kaspersky detractors claim collusion russian intelligence obvious timid voices remained non-committal waiting proof. going ignore part drama completely. care though possibility updates abused nation-state interests. us claim russian intelligence agencies pushing updates selectively users, turning software massive, distributed spying tool, completely feasible technical standpoint. kaspersky responded publishing plan improved transparency, may may maintain standing general public. ignores obvious fact software operates level, "non-malicious" system one update away "malicious". anti-kasperskians quick point even kaspersky innocent now, could well turn malicious tomorrow (with pressure gru) assurances given company dependent "good" instead technical controls. us, relative non-combatants war, irony biting. (mostly american) voices quick float idea gru co-opting russian companies claim us-based companies would never succumb pressure us intelligence community, threat industry position come out. technical control that's different two cases; us defenders betting us intelligence agencies "right thing", today also far future. naturally leads important question: rules apply us officially (or unofficially) war another nation? single malicious update pushed microsoft could cripple almost every government worldwide. world war ii, germany nationalised british assets located germany, great britain likewise. makes perfect sense probably happen future conflicts, too. computers internet changed this. fictitious war us germany, germans could take every microsoft campus country, wouldn't protect windows machines single malicious update propagated company headquarters redmond, washington state. think this, scarier gets. single malicious update pushed microsoft could cripple almost every government worldwide. could prevent this? certainly technical controls (unless build national operating system, north korea did). situation without precedent. small number vendors capacity remotely shut government infrastructure, vacuum secret documents, almost scary wrap head around. that's without pondering likely pressured governments. face future conflict, first step going disabling auto-updates software country? bodes ill us all. internet healthier everyone auto-updates. eco-systems delay patching, worse off. patching painful, botnet malware like mirai take innocent netizens 620 gbit/s traffic. even possibility leads us dark place. south korea owns 30 percent phone market us (and supplies components almost them). chinese factories build hardware ship firmware devices rely daily. like not, dependent countries behaving good international citizens little terms carrot stick encourage "good behaviour". {articleguid} gets even worse smaller countries. type mutually assured technology destruction might exist china us, happens south africa ? don't dog fight. shovel millions millions dollars foreign corporations hope like hell it's never held you. south africa doesn't bargaining power enforce good behaviour, neither argentina spain, together, may. agreement participating countries drawn up, country commits using influence local software company negatively affect signatories. countries found violating principle risk repercussions member countries software produced country. way, intelligence agency seeks abuse influence single company's software risks software produced country blocked member countries. creates shared stick keeps everyone safer. clearly isn't silver bullet. intelligence agency may still break software companies backdoor software, probably will. can't company's cooperation. countries central arbitrator (like international court justice) field cases determine intelligence machinations done without consent software company, like geneva convention would still enforceable times conflict war. software companies grown rich selling countries world. software (and internet) become massive shared resources countries world dependent on. even produce enough globally distributed software seat table, countries deserve comfort knowing software purchase won't used them. case kaspersky makes clear us acknowledges this, credible threat taking steps protect themselves. global agreement protects rest us, too. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author haroon meer haroon meer founder thinkst applied research. @ haroonmeer us & canada hacking science & technology united states russia
renderpagesvideo('5628158335001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); world's top vehicle-makers displaying latest supercars driving technology tokyo motor show. automobile enthusiasts worried car-makers aren't enough attract young buyers. al jazeera’s paul chaderjian reports. japan science & technology
professor subrahmanyan chandrasekhar university chicago (getty images) described "child prodigy" hailed first astrophysicist win nobel prize theory evolution stars, subrahmanyan chandrasekhar would 107 diwali thursday. honour, google changing logo 28 countries doodle, illustration, chandrasekhar limit. lifetime, indian american astrophysicist always recognised achievements. story: intellectual family born lahore 1910 tamil family, chandra home tutored age 12. autobiography, chandrasekhar referred mother "my mother sita woman high intellectual attainments." uncle, sir cv raman, nobel prize physics 1930. also 1930, chandrasekhar completed bachelor's degree physics presidency college madras, india (known today chennai). chandrasekhar awarded scholarship g overnment india pursue graduate studies university cambridge uk . completed phd studies 1933. married lalitha doraiswamy southern indian city madras, chandrasekhar praised wife's "patient understanding, support, encouragement" called "central facts life". belated recognition working researcher cambridge university, chandrasekhar made significant discovery, became known chandrasekhar limit. colleagues sceptical discovery sought discredit it. according open university, english astronomer sir arthur eddington persuaded chandrasekhar present findings royal astronomical society london january 11, 1935. astronomical society, eddington gave lecture " demolish young researcher's calculations theory, dismissing mere mathematical game playing". 30 years later, 1966, scientific research computers hydrogen bomb gave credit chandrasekhar's calculations. black holes, central chandrasekhar's theory, identified 1972. calculations contributed understanding supernovas, neutron stars black holes. security clearance 1937, chandrasekhar emigrated us started working university chicago. world war ii, invited join manhattan project los alamos make nuclear bomb, delays processing security clearance prevented joining. still, chandrasekhar contributed war effort, working ballistic research laboratory maryland. 1953, 16 years came us, chandrasekhar granted us citizenship. died chicago age 85. quotes book, truth beauty, offered advice aspiring scientists, "what scientist tries essentially select certain domain ... see takes appropriate place general scheme form coherence; and, not, seek information would help that." autobiographical sketch nobel prize ceremony, described motivated scientific quest, "when, years study, feel accumulated sufficient body knowledge achieved view own, urge present point view, ab initio, coherent account order, form, structure." interview, chandrasekhar praised us, "i one advantage united states. enormous freedom. want. nobody bothers me". scientist tries essentially select certain domain ... see takes appropriate place general scheme" chandrasekhar, book truth beauty honours chandrasekhar 43, awarded gold medal royal astronomical society. age 56, awarded national medal science numerous contributions stellar astronomy, physics applied mathematics. age 61, honoured draper medal us national academy science leadership in, major contributions to, field astrophysics. 1983, 73 years age, chandrasekhar shared nobel prize physics william fowler "theoretical studies physical processes importance structure evolution stars". is, shining stars eventually become "black holes" " white dwarfs" . india science & technology united states asia us & canada
alphabet's project loon first launched 2013 provide internet service remote regions [google] alphabet inc, company controls google , sending special balloons puerto rico help restore phone service island devastated hurricane maria last month. us federal communications commission said approved company's application provide emergency cellular service puerto rico. aftermath hurricane maria, puerto rico struggled regain communications services. fcc said friday 83 percent cell sites remain service, wireless communications company deploying temporary sites. alphabet, announced project loon 2013 use solar-powered, high-altitude balloons provide internet service remote regions, said fcc filing working "support licensed mobile carriers' restoration limited communications capability" puerto rico. earlier friday, fcc chairman ajit pai announced forming hurricane recovery task force emphasis addressing challenges facing puerto rico us virgin islands. "it critical adopt coordinated comprehensive approach support rebuilding communications infrastructure restoration communications services," pai said statement. separately, puerto rico governor ricardo rossello said twitter posting late friday "great initial conversation @elonmusk tonight. teams talking; exploring opportunities. next steps soon follow." musk, chief executive tesla inc, said friday company would send battery installers puerto rico help restore power hurricane maria knocked power island two weeks ago. musk said diverting resources semi-truck project fix model 3 bottlenecks "increase battery production puerto rico & affected areas". late september, tesla said sending hundreds batteries store power generated solar panels puerto rico provide emergency help wake hurricane maria. source: al jazeera news agencies science & technology puerto rico us & canada
renderpagesvideo('5613845710001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); scientists observed age-old collision two giant neutron stars. rare event confirms theory metals gold platinum formed. al jazeera's rob reynolds explains. science & technology
renderpagesvideo('5606756692001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); wildfires burning us state california killed 21 people, hundreds still missing. around 1,000 firefighters deployed suppress flames. 3,500 homes businesses destroyed - fire experts say damage could prevented. al jazeera's rob reynolds reports los angeles, california. us & canada science & technology
renderpagesvideo('5611573316001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); asteroid size house passed close earth earlier october. 17,000 known objects make passes near planet, paths many unknown. nasa , us space agency, launched new mission aimed pushing asteroids away planet. al jazeera's jake ward reports san francisco, us. us & canada united states science & technology
renderpagesvideo('5624393575001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); international team doctors worked together carry surgery woman london hospital. one doctors room time, others india , us another london hospital. using virtual reality technology, doctors around world able participate consultation. hopes new resource allow better access training doctors medical students every corner globe. al jazeera's nadim baba reports london. science & technology united kingdom europe
renderpagesvideo('5625930066001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); british engineering team taken significant step forward attempt set land speed world record. bloodhound project team successfully tested groundbreaking car eventually attempt exceed speed 1600 kilometres per hour south africa. al jazeera's lee wellings reports. science & technology united kingdom south africa africa
renderpagesvideo('5640406671001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); scientists netherlands say close breakthrough allow crops grown deserts. many say could completely alter life african continent even end hunger. world leaders meeting climate talks germany urged commit funding new agricultural projects drought-stricken parts world. al jazeera's laurence lee reports netherlands. europe netherlands science & technology
renderpagesvideo('5634449422001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); 60 years since soviet dog named laika became first animal orbit earth. historic flight one defining moments space race us soviet union. al jazeera’s victoria gatenby reports. europe russia science & technology
renderpagesvideo('5634096436001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); restart life first treatment programme united states specifically targeting video game internet addicts. estimated 1.2 billion people play video games worldwide - much interferes normal life. al jazeera’s allen schauffler reports washington, dc. science & technology united states us & canada
renderpagesvideo('5648410314001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); team scientists using observatory chile discovered earth-like planet distance 11 light years. discovery "ross 128 b" revealed european southern observatory (eso) wednesday decade intensive space monitoring. astronomers say new planet's warm rocky environment may support life. ross 128 b second-closest planet detected outside solar system surface temperatures potentially similar planet earth. newly discovered planet size temperature earth revolves around so-called "quiet star", get blasted harmful radiation. {articleguid} planet can't observed directly it's hard say whether atmosphere water exist, gives scientists important clues potential life outside solar system. latest revelation comes nasa discovered , earlier year, solar system seven earth-sized planets orbiting star potential supporting life. june, us space agency also announced discovery 10 rocky, earth-sized planets milky way galaxy could potentially liquid water support life. notable discoveries like earth-sized trappist planets proxima b made around similar stars ross 128 b and, case proxima b, even closer solar system. proxima b, located four light years away earth around red dwarf star proxima centauri, discovered team european scientists last year. date, nasa's exoplanet archive includes 3,000 alien worlds. uninhabitable dozen "earth twins" distance look like own. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5333524801001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5333524801001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > nasa discovers seven new earth-like planets pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news science & technology space latin america
renderpagesvideo('5638239539001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); six scientists spending next 17 days locked inside pod russian capital, moscow, experiment tests psychological effects mission deep space. could significant step towards manned mission mars. al jazeera's rory challands reports moscow. space science & technology russia europe
renderpagesvideo('5634264061001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); growing concerns artificial intelligence robotics take jobs away people developed. us study questioned leaders information technology says automation could impact 60 percent businesses 2022. al jazeera's rob reynolds reports los angeles. us & canada united states science & technology
2,000 participants 100 countries expected attend two-day summit [sorin furcoi/al jazeera] doha, qatar - world's leading thinkers fields education, technology economic development convened eighth world innovation summit education (wise). 2,000 participants 100 countries attend two-day summit started wednesday which, since establishment 2009, become premier international gathering future education. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5647438967001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5647438967001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: winner $500,000 global education award talks al jazeera (3:25) pageloadedsuccessfully "education needs give students tools become immune media cultural impositions," sheikha moza bint nasser, chairperson qatar foundation education (qf), said start conference. "social media become cluttered activities spread propaganda, rumours lies divert people's attention reality truth. practices become common place world, outcome would certainly fake facts presented alternative truths." sheikha moza also highlighted blockade imposed qatar june 5. "iraq besieged 13 years using tools deception, excuses fabricated justify 2003 invasion. iraq's education system, one best region 1990, complete ruins. country verge eradicating illiteracy, caught midst wars conflicts dragged progress back unfortunate conditions past. "with tools, yemen besieged today, may know prosperity stability. drowns dreaded triangle ignorance, disease illiteracy. "a blockade imposed qatar since june 5. wanted make matters difficult us, yet difficult them. wanted us change, yet remain unchanged," said. saudi arabia , uae , egypt bahrain cut ties qatar summer imposed land, sea air embargo, accusing supporting "terrorism". doha repeatedly denied allegation, analysts accusing riyadh spreading "fake news". 'post-truth world' speaking education post-truth world, cnn host fareed zakaria said: "the world facing difficult daunting challenge wake donald trump's electoral victory. "trump's part trend, brexit uk, rise far-right... phenomenon concentrated countries. it's happening asia, latin america, it's western world - countries well economically. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5539929992001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5539929992001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: sir ken robinson's education revolution - animation (2:22) pageloadedsuccessfully "what western countries like us, poland, germany common immigrants - we're witnessing reaction cultural change. "in new world, technology playing pernicious role... thing stop decline civilisation facts education. "facts becoming victim boring truth. cannot live world black white white black," said zakaria. 'advancing africa' year's conference saw patrick awuah, created state-of-the-art university native ghana, receive conference's top prize - gold medal $500,000. awuah told al jazeera quit highly lucrative job engineer tech giant microsoft help "advance africa". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5470691827001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5470691827001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: saudi-led blockade qatar affecting college students (2:24) pageloadedsuccessfully "when working microsoft, wasn't excitement engineering. colleagues, wanted change world," said. "that spirit changing world consistent change world helping africa advance." university ashesi, celebrated 15th anniversary year, offers degrees business, computer science engineering. "our tuition fees $11,000 - inclusive room board textbooks," awuah said. said 30 percent students pay nothing studies fully subsidised. "these students coming continent's bottom socio-economic group." twenty percent pay partial fees remaining 50 percent pay full tuition. "we're contributing greatly africa 20 percent student population coming across continent," said awuah. looking ahead future, awuah said hopes africa's universities produce new generation bold innovative leaders help advance region. patrick awuah, created ashesi, state-of-the-art university native ghana, received wise education summit's top prize gold medal $500,000 [faisal edroos/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news qatar education science & technology middle east
renderpagesvideo('5550457418001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); something romantic remote steppes mongolia . flaming sunsets burst across vast plains endless views. wild horses gallop past, kicking trails dust. together 101 east film crew, headed east four-wheel drive home nomadic herder named bilguungerel, also known billy. road ended two hours ago signs, landmarks internet guide us here, keep going. isolation feels like freedom. "how far away?" ask local guide. "oh, near." try again. "how long till reach them?" "maybe five hours. like precise? used that," guide says, laughing. time space treated differently here. it's difficult stick schedule. spend next 10 days sharing ger - round tent traditionally used nomadic families central asia - occupied billy, wife three children. follow billy daily chores, tending herds horses goats. wonder family feels whole crew outsiders suddenly descend lives. billy's family wake sleep sun summer days long. exceptionally dry year work hard feed water herds. billy owns 200 horses roam wild steppes. "we love horses, friends," billy explains. five especially dear never far sight: they're race horses preparing year's naadam festival. horse races festival celebration thousands years mongolian tradition there's lot pride riding event. year, billy's five-year-old son, babu, make debut jockey. every morning evening, father son steppes training horses 20-kilometre runs. babu rides, father following beside small motorbike. months preparation, big day week away. billy owns 200 horses roam wild steppes [sarah yeo/al jazeera] ' lasts night, live' one day, hot arid weather takes drastic turn. rain doesn't stop. night, temperatures plummet, horse becomes ill. outside, full moon, freezing. sick horse writhing ground, pool blood beside it. billy pours two cups vodka holds horse's nostrils. tells fumes help stir horse. children huddle around animal, watching intently. one speaks wind deafening. nothing done, get go inside. "if lasts night, live," billy says. mood sombre, accepting sad. billy expects half livestock die coming winter, temperatures drop -40 degrees celsius. harsh reality life steppes. faced mortality, reminded remoteness whereabouts. next family lives hour's drive away. distance nearest town, family buys fuel water, similar. hill nearby family hike get phone signal make calls. hours nearest hospital. next morning, find young horse survived. days later, weather improves, time naadam. dressed sunday best, family heads festival watch babu's first race. he's excited, it's heart-stopping event. competing 60 riders, young jockey's feet slip stirrups. watch car billy drives alongside 24-kilometre open track. anxious, billy calls son. babu well among pack comes sixth. he's proud himself, family. afternoon say goodbyes family's makeshift tent festival site. plates deep fried pastry bowls vodka make rounds. it's celebration everyone good spirits. pass breathtaking landscape long drive back capital, ulaan baatar. time, seen enough know life mongolian steppe romantic - reality even better. watch mongolia: born ride 101 east. young horse falls ill, family must wait night see survives [sarah yeo/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news author sarah yeo human rights mongolia sport
renderpagesvideo('5550457418001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); khentii province, mongolia - "i miss everything him. ask kept sending race taught ride horse," says p batsaikhan, whose son, lkhagvadorj, seven years old died. boy competing ancient tradition mongolia - racing horses top speed country's vast steppes. horse races longest world. youngest child jockeys. lkhagvadorj fell, trampled horses. wasn't wearing helmet, skull crushed. father, baasandorj, waiting finish line. "i rode fast could hospital. got there, died. sat next son hour silence," recalls. mongolia birthplace genghis khan, founded empire horseback. today, horses remain symbol nation's sovereignty spirit. culture celebrated every year naadam, country's biggest festival. part celebrations, hundreds horse races held across nation, keeping ancient tradition alive. mongolian law states children must least seven years old compete horse races. al jazeera found riders young five - riders like babu. "i like galloping fast. racing best," says. babu one estimated 30,000 mongolian child jockeys. small needs father hoist saddle. months training, he's compete first race. 80 jockeys, babu ride one father's stallions along 24km, unmarked dusty track. he's raring go. "i like ride horse like win," explains. mongolian law states children must least seven years old compete horse races. al jazeera found riders young five [101 east/al jazeera] child labour international labour organization calls ancient sport dangerous form child labour. past five years, 1,500 child jockeys injured 10 died horse races across country, according figures ulaan baatar traumatology hospital. dr p bayarsaikhan trauma surgeon hospital. treated injured child jockeys. "it's considered serious injury comes us," explains. "we feel emotional involves children." despite laws requiring children wear protective gear, many children compete without helmets. bayarsaikhan says lack safety equipment means head injuries common among fall, leaving riders long-term brain injuries. says child jockeys unable accurately assess hazards riding, leading take dangerous risks. tsanlig battuya, spokesperson group national network worst forms child labour , believes child jockeys often exploited, children poor families sometimes pushed sport. "what trying say keep children away exploitation - don't want ride horse. trying protect rights safety," says. past five years, 1,500 child jockeys injured 10 died horse races across country [101 east/al jazeera] new laws law requiring jockeys wear helmets introduced 2011. oyungerel tsedevdamba, former inister culture, sports tourism, claims naadam races regulated. means trainers free ignore safety guidelines private races outside festivities. trainer judged responsible jockey's death, maximum penalty $8,000 fine. tsedevdamba says insufficient, calling tougher penalties. one gone jail far child's death horse race ... it's big problem one sued state never prosecuted anyone child's death tsedevdamba, former minister culture "no one gone jail far child's death horse race ... it's big problem one sued state never prosecuted anyone child's death," tsedevdamba explains. jockeys dropping school race train full-time, tsedevdamba says struggle find work become old race. "they aren't educated … that's another problem," explains. country horse racing political establishment closely linked, activists question whether political properly regulate industry. earlier year, al jazeera found mongolian parliamentarians owned 654 racehorses. voices mongolia calling complete ban child jockeys, tradition looks set continue. "if pushed take children completely horseback non-mongolian," says tsedevdamba. "i think every mongolian would want make children learn ride horses … draw line traditional race stop children." five-year-old babu, horse racing offers chance prove one toughest races world. "i want win prize naadam," says. father, it's continuing proud family tradition, dates back thousands years. "it's like become one horse. it's blood. bond there," says. find babu's debut race goes, watch mongolia: born ride 101 east. source: al jazeera news authors drew ambrose senior producer correspondent 101 east, al jazeera's asia-pacific current affairs show. @ drewambrose daniel connell mongolia human rights sport
members detroit lions take knee singing national anthem [rey del rio/getty images] last week, us president donald trump lashed players taking knee customary national anthem nfl games. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5550033052001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5550033052001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: taking stand bending knee: colin kaepernick started movement (2:42) pageloadedsuccessfully speaking us state alabama september 22, trump decried protests, calling national football league (nfl) owners fire "any son b****" "disrespects flag". following day, many nfl players knelt national anthem, known "star-spangled banner". terrell suggs baltimore ravens mike evans tampa bay buccaneers among knelt last sunday. others locked arms show solidarity unity, avoided ceremonies altogether remaining locker rooms concluded. estimated 200 people participated form protest last sunday, prompting trump post series tweets criticised knelt called nfl create policies require players stand anthem. protests - known #takeaknee social media - started colin kaepernick, former quarterback san francisco 49ers. preseason game 2016, kaepernick sat national anthem rather stand. interview game, kaepernick explained chose sit protest ongoing police killings people colour, particularly black americans. "i going stand show pride flag country oppresses black people people colour," said. "to me, bigger football would selfish part look way. bodies street people getting paid leave getting away murder." read more: killings police rise trump's america? kaepernick's protests prompted widespread solidarity public outrage. many celebrated decision, others deemed "traitor" accused dishonouring country. protests spread throughout nfl, well sports, including professional basketball baseball. al jazeera broken handful interesting compelling analyses trump's comments nfl protests. 'this never national anthem' root, michael harriot argues anger right-wing americans, among trump, national anthem all. harriot maintains outrage actually rooted lack understanding regarding protests, potential loss money power sports industry inability accept black americans fighting back institutional racism discrimination. outrage kaepernick unmelanated america lot things. dog-whistle 'patriotism' 'america first.' america's continuing love game 'see racism, hear racism.' riling flag-wavers force oppose habitual line steppers.but never anthem. michael harriot, root nfl owners 'biggest hypocrites yet' writing intercept, columnist shaun king argues trump attempting divert attention ongoing crisis puerto rico, left millions without electricity, attacking protesting nfl players way league's wealthy executives already been. points kaepernick's ostracisation nfl inability hired team. king says nfl owners effectively banned kaepernick protests, argued hypocrites joining protesting athletes trump's comments last week. never mind aaron rodgers tom brady, two best quarterbacks game, say kaepernick league. never mind fact teams still winless quarterbacks struggling every single quarter. trump said single word alabama, teams already shut kaepernick out. shaun king , intercept, 'don't let trump make protests him' treva lindsey, writing cosmopolitan, argues trump's attack protesting athletes much forceful disavowals deadly "unite right" rally charlottesville, virginia last month. participant white supremacist rally allegedly drove car crowd killed anti-racist activist, trump later criticised many viewed unconvincing condemnation far right. protests started kaepernick pushing equity, equality justice american society, charlottesville rally promoted white supremacy racism, lindsey writes, arguing trump offended former latter. attacking black protestors forcefully white supremacists neo-nazis, trump reinforces kaepnernick protesting time - legacy reality racism country. president's insistence issue kneeling nothing race illustrates doesn't get it. #takeaknee pushes nation life, liberty, pursuit happiness reality lofty ideal crafted white slaveholding men. course, impossible note hypocrisy people like trump demonise kneeling unpatriotic promote slogan 'make america great again,' assertion america already great. treva lindsey, cosmopolitan 'nothing sacred anymore' michael starr hopkins, writing hill, maintains trump responsible politicising american football populist attempt avoid conversations policies. hopkins says protests sparked necessary public conversation militarised policing police brutality african american communities, subject trump wants suppress. president said nothing constitutional protections afforded numerous football players constitutional right kneel protest. trump said nothing civil rights pioneers like martin luther king, muhammad ali rosa parks, whose silent protest led gains kaepernick fellow protesters intend expound upon. instead, trump used soldiers, bravely given lives caskets draped american flag, political prop. michael starr hopkins, hill 'our protest still misconstrued disrespectful' eric reid, fellow nfl player former teammate kaepernick, explains new york times joined kaepernick protest police brutality. reid says kaepernick wanted use platforms professional athletes shine light crisis police brutality communities colour "speak voiceless". refuse one people watches injustices yet nothing. want man children children's children proud of, someone faced adversity tried make positive impact world, person who, 50 years now, remembered standing right, even though popular easy choice. eric reid, new york times read al jazeera's coverage black lives matter, police brutality related topics: opinion: take knee justice: protest white power! khalid albaih: created colin kaepernick cartoon opinion: blackballing kaepernick - fear black athlete source: al jazeera news us & canada racism sport united states politics
sri lankan cricket captain thisara perera shakes hands pakistani cricketer mohammad hafeez [aamir qureshi/getty images] lahore, pakistan - sense excitement palpable warm, smoggy evening cricket fans queued hours outside gaddafi stadium n pakistan's lahore . despite long lines, people ages waited patiently security cards checked entering stadium watch highest-profile international cricket match eight years. 2009, convoy sri lankan national team attacked 12 gunmen lahore heading stadium. attack left eight people dead seven players wounded. since then, major test-playing nation went pakistan due security concerns. zimbabwe briefly toured country 2015. sunday, returning sri lankan team received hero's welcome - despite major players pulling match. government officials cricket fans took social media thank sri lanka players, banners seen across city welcomed lahore. inside stadium, fans held posters waved sri lankan flags teams entered stadium. match took place backdrop large security operation. 10,000 security forces deployed lahore put lockdown - order prove international cricket could played front pakistan's passionate fans. pakistan scored 36-run t20 victory sri lanka, match result small part equation. al jazeera spoke cricket enthusiasts spectators match meant country: ali hamdani can't tell happy here. missed last series couldn't find ticket buy. it's like dream come true seeing international cricket, back pakistan, eyes. spectators hold placards t20 international cricket match pakistan sri lanka [mohsin raza/reuters] malik samiullah feel excitement air right now. almost lost hope gatherings like lahore. sri lankan team done us great favour. wajahat saeed khan it's finally here, big moment. i'm cricket fan, believe pakistan. must say pakistan wasn't quite last years cricket missing. pakistan's cricket team celebrates winning third final t20 cricket match sri lanka [aamir quereshi/getty images] it's back. we're back form. we're back shape. special thanks sri lanka - awesome people are. you've made us complete again. bless coming pakistan, bless playing champions game tough country, making us whole again. farah first all, want welcome sri lankan team pakistan eight years, it's brought back entertainment fun stadium. coming see matches eight years ago, every match pakistan's since, haven't missed since. it's prayer keeps going pakistan safe place. proved now, every team wants play us come welcome everyone. very, excited here. afia salaam words describe happiness seeing international cricket back pakistan. cricket-crazy country .. binding force, almost alternate religion. one say sri lanka except huge "thank you". pakistan's players celebrate winning third final t20 cricket match sri lanka [aamir queshi/getty images] know pakistan also stood times country wracked violence teams willing forfeit matches rather go world cup. however, happened pakistan horrific. made us pariah state cricket world, yet first ones end isolation one cannot grateful enough. ahmer naqvi mixed emotions situation. pakistani fan,it obviously heartening see fans inside gadaffi stadium again. see impact team, well perform, it's important, integral part culture. pakistani citizen, think opinion mine trumps previous one, favour cricket returning country, personally feel immoral continue terrorist attacks. continue security issues, continue hate speech country. pakistani soldier stands guard outside gaddafi stadium [mohsin raza/reuters] existential crisis continues take lives pakistanis. much security apparatus diverted provide security [for event]. understand necessary it's difficult decision take. sympathise pakistan cricket board, don't think much less option. making best situation. citizen, misgivings prioritisation cricket security many countrymen areas country. finally, think important acknowledge sri lankan cricket team board nation general. don't think cricket would survived pakistan 2009 terrorist attacks hadn't sri lanka. source: al jazeera news author alia chughtai interactive journalist sport pakistan sri lanka cricket t20
overturn fiba's hijab ban visibility merit sports professionals happen dress modestly, writes munu [ap] sure us know now, discussions around hijab staple food media general public, time, wrong reasons, merit regurgitation. good reason one dons reflect upon latest controversy, comes recent overturning international basketball federation (fiba) ban muslim women wearing hijab playing basketball. story detailing ban veil muslim non-muslim majority country listings commentator deems polyester viscose item affront western civilisation, muslim women would probably licked fingers turned page. why? discourse real experiences muslim women - discourse present "victims" - moved snail's pace. love headscarf author, shelina janmohamed, says "it feels like one listening". one seems listening necessarily mean hijab-wearing muslim women seek overt validation personal choice. appreciation piece scarf be-all-end-all muslim woman represents. earlier month, iron gate broken arena basketball. hijab obstacle muslim athletes video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5352139380001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5352139380001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: nike taps growing muslim market new sports hijab (1:25) pageloadedsuccessfully may 4, fiba, first ever mid-term congress, overturned ban whole variety headgear hijabs, turbans yarmulkes allowed items worn basketball games. prior this, organisation revised rulings headgear rule september 2014, exceptions granted national level part two-year testing period. fiba took decision believed previous policies relating headwear incompatible traditional dress codes including hijab. indeed, ban caused several muslim women teams miss playing many arenas. fiba's central board approved proposal reverse ban, stating new rules take effect october year. statement , organisation said new regulation headgear "developed way minimizes risk injuries well preserve consistency colour uniform". opinion: hello welcome hijabi olympics surface level, demonstrates hijab adapted readapted multiple situations within public life. crucially, decision also demonstrates hijab impediment social cultural standing muslim women women choose dress modestly. fiba's decision revise headgear rules big win activists sportswomen tirelessly fighting make fact known. doubt still long way go muslim women muslim countries acquire full civil participation - hopefully, repeal one many stepping stones achieve this. bilqis abdul qadir, exceptional young woman college basketball player whose accomplishments acknowledged former us president barack obama , one sportswomen impacted ban. made history first division one basketball player wear muslim veil, earlier fiba ban blocked chances going professional basketball. conundrum toll, culminating creating documentary 2016 entitled "life without basketball". short documentary, bilqis said, "it's hard young muslim woman america. takes strength walk outside look different anyone else … stereotype, [muslim women] quiet they're submissive … play basketball, worry nothing … it's huge question mark." participating society muslim girls women like bilqis, conversation actually extends beyond scope veil. females afforded opportunity privileges akin respective societies. women dress modestly adhere religious dress religiosity marker prevents fully participating society. opinion: sexy veils, running shoes missing feminisms british sudanese basketball player, asma elbadawi, also coach spoken word poet, also campaigned overturn fiba's hijab ban. reaction repeal ban, told me, "i could see day coming mainly sport governing bodies already relaxed rules regarding religious attire. however, thought, manifested reality indescribable feeling." elbadawi thinks it's important muslim girls positive role models area may feel carve potential in. says , "since basketball one popular sports right now, scope muslims seen different light show willingness integrate society." would go say muslim women have, part, integrated contributed western non-western societies, across different periods places. visibility real representation levels - sporting circles, areas life. doubt still long way go muslim women muslim countries acquire full civic participation - hopefully, repeal one many stepping stones achieve this. sport always arena great social political change, fiba would argue original ban primarily health safety part participants, overturn less significant. visibility merit sports professionals happen dress modestly. basketball hijab, can. adama juldeh munu broadcast producer journalist. currently embarking masters degree middle east politics university london. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author adama juldeh munu adama juldeh munu broadcast producer journalist. basketball hijab women's rights sport us & canada
lilesa shows solidarity oromo people crossing finish line 2016 rio olympics [reuters/athit perawongmetha] name feyisa lilesa. exiled marathon runner ethiopia . back country since winning silver medal rio olympic games last august. rio, approached finish line, crossed wrists head solidarity men, women children died fighting rights still suffering brutal regime ethiopia. sign nonviolent resistance used protesters native oromia region, largest ethiopia's nine ethnic-based states. much changed since olympic protest rio. live train exile united states . last february, reunited wife two children. meanwhile, despite global spotlight protest attracted, killings, imprisonment harassment people ethiopian security forces worsened. continue protest, every race every media event. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5436377756001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5436377756001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > long ethiopia state emergency last? pageloadedsuccessfully days, world health organization (who) member states elect new director general 70th world health assembly. one top three candidates tedros adhanom, current special adviser ethiopian prime minister ethiopia's former foreign health minister. adhanom travelling world discussing human rights (while comically admitting ethiopia's record " perfect ") part campaign lead who. adhanom one chief architects ethiopia's repressive regime. cabinet minister decade. 2015 2016, according human rights organisations, security forces killed hundreds peaceful protesters; number opinion might 1,000. adhanom, country's foreign minister, downplayed extent problem denounced even scant international scrutiny ethiopia's human rights record. op-ed last october, adhanom targeted human rights watch - blaming new york-based nonprofit ethiopian diaspora whipping anti-government protests. systematically decimated domestic opposition, civil society independent press, regime attempting intimidate silence critics abroad. like government served, spends millions dollars lobbying shore international support, adhanom turned pr agencies whitewash image. adhanom travelling around world hypocritically talking health human right. health minister, office refused acknowledge large cholera outbreaks cost many lives. today ethiopia also covering yet another cholera outbreak, using euphemism acute watery diarrhoea . adhanom also touting success ethiopia's national health extension program. friends worked extension workers know communities supposed benefit much-hyped initiative. particularly oromo areas, services never reached people needed most. opinion: oromo protests changed ethiopia towns, poorly supplied health centres built extension workers 10th grade education - year medical training - assigned staff facilities. however, poor training, distance workers travel get satellite offices lack medical equipment supplies meant majority still don't access quality health services. moreover, admission programme requires party membership mandatory political indoctrination . words, adhanom's health ministry used donor-funded health extension programme coercive political recruitment tool ruling ethiopian people's revolutionary democratic front (eprdf). cases, people denied access asked join eprdf order access even measly services provided extension workers. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5402176315001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5402176315001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > ethiopia violence: report says 900 killed pageloadedsuccessfully all. ethiopia gained international praise reaching united nations millennium development goals. however, oromia today, babies often still die great numbers preventable diseases diarrhoea. true child mortality rate never recorded since statistics falsified aim meeting global development goals keeping foreign aid coming. practice far escaped international scrutiny given lack independent press, organised opposition robust civil society ethiopia. years authoritarian backsliding, ethiopia effectively military state, ruled command post set oversee country's eight-month-long state emergency, declared october. despite crimes, still opportunity adhanom ethiopian regime right thing. first, martial law must immediately lifted protesters, journalists, opposition leaders civil society members must released jail. specifically, oromo opposition leaders bekele gerba, merera gudina colleagues must released without delay. authorities must also allow independent investigation, including un special rapporteurs torture assembly, human rights violations killings protesters. second, instead blaming diaspora neighbouring countries deepening political crisis, authorities must meet protesters' demands free fair ethiopia. entails opening political environment allowing country's 100 million citizens elect leaders - ending hegemony adhanom's tigrayan ethnic group. finally, adhanom - still special adviser ethiopian prime minister - must withdraw election director general issue formal apology ethiopian people, african union human rights groups trying divert attention crimes government committed past two half decades. international civil society groups, media member states face unique opportunity send clear message human rights matter. perpetrators enablers atrocious crimes cannot rewarded complacency face egregious rights abuses. member states must reject adhanom's candidacy demand ethiopia stops covering water-borne diseases transparent record child mortality key indicators. look forward one day returning home run across blood-red soil homeland. however, oromo people gain freedom, continue protest solidarity. feyisa lilesa long-distance runner ethiopia member oromo people. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author feyisa lilesa feyisa lilesa long-distance runner ethiopia member oromo people. ethiopia human rights sport politics africa
megan rapinoe, member women's national team, took knee national anthem protest felt liberties gay athlete protected us [ap] us soccer long subject tensions nativist, nationalist impulses liberal, progressive tendencies. battle may coming head age donald trump national federation taking political stance favour status quo policy banning protests players playing us anthem . expected, players us men's national team respected policy team played summer. games since ban came force, women's team done so, too. yet, level, us soccer federation's decision overreaction. one incident player kneeling: last september megan rapinoe, member women's national team, took knee national anthem game club, seattle reign chicago red stars nwsl, women's professional football league. repeated protest games us national team thailand netherlands. opinion: blackballing kaepernick - fear black athlete rapinoe was, course, taking lead nfl football player colin kaepernick much 2016 protested racism police brutality united states kneeling national anthem. athletes variety sporting disciplines levels (from high school professional) followed suit. gay athlete, rapinoe felt liberties protected us, also stressed importance "white people stand support people colour [police brutality]". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5122033390001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5122033390001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: nfl - obama defends kaepernick’s anthem snub (2:06) pageloadedsuccessfully right-wing critics countered pervasive delusion sport politics mixed, liberals contended athletes don't stand anthem disrespectful military anti-american. (with new season beckoning, kaepernick, currently without team, announced ceasing anthem protest, though wouldn't end activism police brutality.) so, move us soccer (as federation popularly known) clearly direct response rapinoe's protest also pre-emptive; means censor future protest. new policy made explicit approach us soccer took 2016 height anthem protests said expected players coaches stand anthem. according policy, "all persons representing federation national team shall stand respectfully playing national anthems event federation represented." rapinoe's protest clearly welcomed us soccer. yet, disappointing chosen restrict freedom expression players coaches, surprised development. big sports american football baseball tend seen patriotic nativist (witness hard kaepernick get job nfl), major american sports league - private organisations - enacted restrictive policy. football progressive bastion us soccer rightly criticised, release new policy, double talk (taking political stance issue pretending remain neutral). one explanation put forward us soccer's stance afford indifferent police brutality disproportionately affects black people. football players white, amateur level mls (12 percent professional players against, example, nfl 70 percent black). goes women's professional football us. addition, none us soccer's board directors black, football magazine editor george quraishi pointed . read more: lebron james - racism 'part america' despite lack racial diversity, us, football thrives media image "being liberal/progressive/cosmopolitan [because] it's international". 2014 world cup, poll yougov ( pdf ) demonstrated liberals likely conservatives soccer fans. football often attacked conservatives, including right-wing pundit ann coulter's bizarre claim growing popularity us somehow represents "sign nation's moral decay". so, football tends associated openness diversity. picture football progressive bastion partly true. writer james bridget gordon wrote last year, despite image "us soccer business". protesting players certainly good business. patriotism is. also true number team owners big gop donors supporters. fact, one cofounders mls owner la galaxy, phil anschutz , associated financial support ultraconservative right-wing causes. robert kraft, owner new england patriots major booster donald trump, also owner mls's new england revolution. rapinoe's team nwsl supported protest, rapinoe accused bill lynch, owner washington spirit, homophobe team played anthem players took field game reign order deny rapinoe chance protest. reactions anthem protests subsequent ban tended focus whether kneeling anti-american act whether banning protest violation first amendment. thirdly, like many sports us, business us soccer intimate ties military. government oversight report ( pdf ) released 2015 outlined "$10 million … paid teams national football league (nfl), major league baseball (mlb), national basketball association (nba), national hockey league (nhl) major league soccer (mls)" department defense report called "paid patriotism", displays honouring american soldiers. total eight mls teams - seattle sounders, colorado rapids, real salt lake, dc united, fc dallas, la galaxy, houston dynamo, columbus crew - received military funding. beyond this, clubs also regularly host "military appreciation nights". sport's leading players personalities also guilty xenophobia . three years ago, bruce arena, coach men's national team, said "p layers national team ... americans. they're born countries, don't think say making progress". credit, arena later changed tune . separately, tim howard, longtime number one choice national team goalkeeper, publicly questioned "pride" foreign-born, dual national players (mostly players whose black fathers served us army germany started families german women.) abby wambach, former teammate rapinoe, also backed howard's comments . one outspoken supporters anthem protest ban alexi lalas, former men's national team member commentator television. separately, geoff cameron, member us men's national team plays stoke city english premier league, expressed support president trump's visa refugee ban citizens seven muslim majority countries, well anthem protest ban. coach arena also said "very supportive" new anthem policy. xenophobia, reflects narrow understanding could american (that designation happens imply ethnically white, middle-class americans) coupled dubbed " europhilic american soccer culture" (in us football culturally tactically identifies supposed english "roots") may explain us soccer mls failed attract latino american fans games. journalists pointed spectacle mls club fans singing xenophobic violent songs originate european leagues, identifying game white, suburban culture. opinion: far sterling - rebranding racism sports nevertheless, paint us soccer right-wing enterprise would unfair. course, still progressive, cosmopolitan, anti-racist elements within us soccer identity complex one often projected. time, rapinoe said respect policy, mean resistance ended. also case us men's captain michael bradley even arena condemned trump's immigration ban . perhaps clarifying moment, days trump elected president, us men's national team played mexico world cup qualifier. campaign, trump threatened build wall two countries made racist generalisations mexicans mexican americans. helped win trump election. match, two teams posed together picture. mexico match, symbolism wasn't lost participants. mexican striker, oribe peralta, tweeted match: "there wall stop us". reactions anthem protests subsequent ban tended focus whether kneeling anti-american act whether banning protest violation first amendment. yet issue arguably deeper that. exemplifies struggle define identity us soccer, far failed adequately live progressive image often ascribed it. ban step wrong direction. sean jacobs associate professor international affairs new school. founded website, africa country . aubrey bloomfield writer researcher based new york city recent graduate new school international affairs programme, wrote master's thesis role sport boycott, divestment sanctions (bds) movement. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. authors sean jacobs sean jacobs associate professor international affairs new school. aubrey bloomfield aubrey bloomfield writer researcher based new york city. @ aubbloomfield football united states politics sport
pittsburgh penguins centers sidney crosby evgeni malkin hold stanley cup stanley cup championship parade rally downtown pittsburgh [charles leclaire/usa today/reuters] professional ice hockey white man's sport. owners white. coaches managers white. players white. people pay expensive seat watch game arena white. people watch tv white. reporters cover sport white (and men). people work world's premier league, national hockey league (nhl), white, including president. game played white ice. aim: keep small, black puck net put team's net, features, course, white netting. blizzard whiteness may big part reason last year's stanley cup champion pittsburgh penguins, white owner, manager, players star captain, sidney crosby, decided meet white president sees responds world in, well, sinister black white. opinion: us soccer - progressive bastion penguins say, statement , they're keeping promise meet president trump tuesday white house they're polite respectful. look, say, polite respectful barack obama (who black) visited white house cup 2016 polite respectful george bush ii (who white) visited white house cup early 1990s. visits, particularly obama, make future visit trump sort cancel out, know mean? video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5587850473001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5587850473001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: trump's sports row - nfl players react across us (2:35) pageloadedsuccessfully penguins also say, without actually saying it, anyone upset they're meeting guy hockey fans, former players big-name canadian sportswriters don't like, lots good reasons, go ahead upset that's right, we're upset all. so, stuff it, we're going shake guy's hand pose pictures frame put proudly wall home, office maybe both. we're polite respectful. that's hockey players are: polite respectful. get it. oh, we're humble, too. we're mostly small towns canada , united states europe we've always told respect elders. mr trump president united states. he's important man, important job. gee, he's taking time say: you're hired, fired! say mr president since he's already congratulated " great team" twitter coming? we're meeting guy calls white supremacists polo shirts carrying tiki torches making nazi salutes " fine people ". "very fine people" long history hate have, not-so-distant past, enjoyed killing millions children, women men ovens hanged trees they're black, brown, jews, muslims, roma, homosexuals, sick, decent people think racists scum. remember, we're polite humble hockey players. opinion: take knee justice: protest white power! we're meeting guy says likes "grab" women - like mothers, wives, sisters daughters - " p**** ". allegedly tried oodles women reportedly said loudly clearly didn't take well. remember, we're polite humble hockey players. we're meeting guy calls mexicans " rapists " tries, again, ban people coming pittsburgh anywhere else us muslim. way, like trump, don't get meet lot mexicans muslims silly line work. remember, we're polite humble hockey players. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5584966543001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5584966543001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: trump - fire players kneel us national anthem (2:23) pageloadedsuccessfully we're meeting guy calls puerto ricans " ingrates " lives, hopes futures washed away hurricane . we're meeting guy calls black athletes who've stopped white police officers they're black exhausted watching chorus line white police officers go free murdering unarmed black men, " sons b****** " . remember, we're polite humble hockey players. give us break. ok? we're good guys. really. look, "give back community" many ways. donate tonne money make help poor kids - white, black brown. visit kids hospital time make forget sick awhile. visit kids, tell reporters: boy, reality check. ever understand people don't good. man, there's lot suffering injustice. don't like talk kind suffering injustice black football players taking knee expose something about. that's "politics". don't play "politics". it's style. us couldn't find charlottesville, virginia map tried probably don't know heather heyer is. don't say much kind suffering injustice because, fact is, we're mostly white guys who've never seen, let alone experienced it. ( jt brown , black winger tampa bay lightning, doubt, has. that's raised fist protest us national anthem tilt saturday night florida.) anyway, ever since we've kids, we've told fit in, stick out. that's best way make big leagues. learn keep mouth, eyes brain shut play hockey. what's happening real world, people don't look like us come part world us, isn't worry bother. remember, we're polite, humble white. like captain canada, sidney crosby , said: "this isn't [about] us taking stance". hey, us never taken stance anything play hockey much money possibly can. so, hell yeah, we're going stand next donald trump - literally figuratively. see, he's kind guy ways one. andrew mitrovica award-winning investigative reporter journalism instructor. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author andrew mitrovica andrew mitrovica award-winning investigative reporter journalism instructor. @ andrewmitrovica canada sport racism politics us & canada
catalan parliament declared independence spain friday, many started question effect future catalonia's biggest football club, fc barcelona. spanish senate responded declaration approving direct rule breakaway region. take look likely happen popular football club political crisis unfolds. read more: latest updates catalonia referendum la liga exit? october 1, two million people, 90 percent cast ballot, voted "yes" catalonia breaking away spain . spanish team joined countrywide strike early october protest "the serious events took place day catalan referendum independence". friday, catalan parliament declared independence, leaving region's future hanging air. developments unfold, fc barcelona faces possibility exit la liga, spain's national football league. read more: catalonia independence referendum - need know team currently sits top league rankings 24 la liga titles. club's president, josep maria bartomeu, said barcelona's annual general meeting club wants stay la liga. "we never put club presence competition risk. that's why, socios (members), say want continue playing la liga and, today, participation [in la liga] guaranteed," said according reuters. " it's mutually beneficial la liga barcelona link continue," bartomeu concluded. previously, bartomeu said club would consider option leaving national league event catalonia's split spain. "the situation concerning barcelona's future la liga exist far," told reporters earlier month. "but, regards happen future, board directors discuss options." added: "we find best solution. independence happens, need discuss things carefully." could barcelona really leave la liga? president says it's possible. pic.twitter.com/m1sju9n7lm — goal (@goal) october 2, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > football analysts say way four-time european champions remain spanish league following secession amendments made country's laws. "the sports law regulations changed spanish parliament barcelona accepted spanish league," guillem balague, spanish football journalist, told al jazeera. "t way barcelona part league independence." despite speculations possible move english premier league (epl), experts believe catalan team's top priority would stay spanish league. keeping barcelona la liga also interest league club's archrival, real madrid, said balague. "in longer term, la liga without barcelona would conceivably damaging club league," said al jazeera's sports correspondent lee wellings. catalan teams, rcd espanyol girona - spain's first division - also find boat barcelona. 'jewel catalonia's crown' fc barcelona, famously called barca, expressed support catalonia's right choose stayed clear openly backing region's independence. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5597396018001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5597396018001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: happens next catalonia's secession vote? (2:51) pageloadedsuccessfully among least 4,000 signatories national agreement right decide referendum agreement, group comprising political parties civil society organisations favour independence vote. pro-independence supporters barcelona chant 17th-minute mark home games remember events year 1714 catalonia lost autonomy spain war succession. barcelona defender gerard pique among openly voiced support independent catalonia. regularly jeered whistled field national league matches outside barcelona playing spanish national team. al jazeera's wellings said pique "is one [in team] affected current situation". team large fan base home abroad. fc barcelona almost 25 million followers twitter , one billion facebook likes official page . "barcelona fan base throughout spain real madrid," said wellings. "it jewel catalonia's crown, popularity outside region comes global recognition. one world's successful popular football clubs, indeed sports brands." follow saba aziz twitter: @saba_aziz video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5595900019001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5595900019001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: catalonia's anti-secessionists concerned future referendum (2:27) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news sport football catalonia spain
renderpagesvideo('5613835378001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); legal case filed former nfl quarterback colin kaepernick escalating field. debate freedom speech patriotism us . league meeting see resolved. al jazeera's gabriel elizondo reports new york. us & canada sport politics
football's governing body cited 'exceptional complexity sensitivity' 'political' nature issue [file: majdi mohammed/ap] correction oct. 27, 2017: previous version article stated fifa postponed decision settlement teams. international football's governing body announced take position future six israeli football clubs based illegal settlements occupied west bank . fifa representatives met kolkata, india, friday cited "exceptional complexity sensitivity" "political" nature subject. "given final status west bank territories concern competent international public law authorities, fifa council agrees fifa, line general principle established statutes, must remain neutral regard political matters," fifa said statement. "furthermore, agreed interference fifa status quo football relevant territories without consent parties concerned might aggravate situation football territories question, also greater region affected - would best interests game." consequence, body noted, fifa would refrain "refrain imposing sanctions". declared matter closed. palestine football association (pfa) campaigning fifa force relocation clubs since 2015. clubs located settlements considered illegal international law, breach fifa statutes. pfa president jibril rajoub previously said seeking expulsion israel fifa, rather israel abide international regulations. "we want stop football football-related activity run israeli federation palestine's internationally recognised territories," said. {articleguid} speaking friday's decision take action, sarah leah whitson, executive director middle east division human rights watch , said: "there nothing political deciding follow one's rules. "with today's decision, fifa decided continue sponsoring games illegal israeli settlements, contempt international law contrary professed commitment human rights." statement, fadi quran, senior campaigner palestine civic organisation, avaaz, said fifa's failure act means thousands palestinian children "robbed chance play game love land that's theirs." "if fifa won't job won't respect statutes international law, courts force so," said. fifa postponed issue least four times past two years, forcing pfa take matter court arbitration sport may. special monitoring committee, appointed fifa 2015, tasked resolve issue within year - mandate extended october 2016, january 2017 march 2017. six teams based jewish settlements kiryat arba, givat zeev, maale adumim, ariel, oranit tomer. source: al jazeera news palestine israel fifa sport middle east
kaepernick began protest august last year [file: ap photo] american footballers' campaign protests police brutality racism rippling throughout united states sparking demonstrations beyond national football league (nfl). growing anger right-wing us president donald trump's criticism nfl players kneel customary national anthem beginning games, activists targeted team owners politicians demonstrations, high school college athletes also followed suit. tuesday, carl dix linda solotaire, members refusefascism.org activist group, confronted dallas cowboys owner jerry jones conrad new york hotel lobby. pair shouted jones accused upholding white supremacy, cowboys owner whisked away security team. dix, 69-year-old african american, said fellow protesters gathered hotel rally nfl owners meeting there. singled jones due owner's recent threat bench players protest national anthem. "i told him, 'you trying silence muzzle nfl protesters tradition silencing abusing african americans society,'" dix told al jazeera telephone. "i problem players taking knee protests. haven't stood flag since army nearly 50 years ago," military veteran said. "it really tells something president isn't bothered videos police shooting black people back unarmed people, bothered someone protests silently taking knee national anthem." jerry meets protestors pic.twitter.com/jh0wgsupb5 — lindsey adler (@lindseyadler) october 17, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > incident comes protests grow professional sports leagues high school college football leagues places across us. friday, football players midland high school michigan, plan hold silent protest game's national anthem, according local live news site. also friday, five cheerleaders kennesaw state university, college georgia, plan take knee sight stadium's audience national anthem. university barred cheerleaders field anthem following incident last month cheerleaders knelt song, according local media. ames, iowa, high school band players walked national anthem football game last friday night. last month, cedric ingram-lewis, 16, larry mccullough, 18, kicked football team crosby, texas, protesting racial inequity national anthem. ingram-lewis raised fist, mccullough took knee. 'get son b**** field' august 2016, then-san francisco 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick sparked widespread protests nfl knelt national anthem voice opposition police brutality disproportionately targets african americans. year alone, police killed least 1,093 people, according guardian's database, counted. although african americans comprise roughly 12 percent country's population, almost quarter killed police. far year, killed police monitoring group recorded least 954 police slayings. later leaving 49ers, kaepernick went off-season training camps periods without signed team. protests already erupted, players taking knee national anthem much 2016 2017 football seasons. {articleguid} last month, donald trump elicited widespread criticism called nfl owners fire players kneel anthem, accusing athletes disrespecting american flag country's military. speaking huntsville, alabama, september, trump urged nfl owners fire player participates demonstrations: "get son b**** field right now, out, he's fired. he's fired," told crowd campaign-style rally. trump denied comments motivated racism, critics levelled accusation nonetheless. "the issue kneeling nothing race," trump insisted twitter post following initial comments. "it respect country, flag national anthem. nfl must respect this!" thursday, trump make america great committee launched petition, saying "president asked list supporters stand national anthem". petition came nfl commissioner week refused punish players kneel anthem. issac bailey, journalist interim member charlotte observer editorial board, argued trump's attack nfl attempt "use protests cudgel whip white outrage". "such attacks always eventually backfire initially seeming work," bailey, also james k batten professor public policy davidson college, told al jazeera. "that's history race fight equality tells us," added. "the spread [protests] beyond nfl definitely speaks legitimacy, high school players students punished kneeling shows issue important well beyond ranks professional football players." 'long history' nfl protests continue escalate, daniel grano, professor university north carolina, charlotte, expects movement continue grow. {articleguid} "the gesture travelled, probably continue leak across boundaries nfl," told al jazeera. "i think historically unique." grano, whose research focuses race, politics sports, explained "long history protest sports, especially protests live events". explained nfl protests "very clearly fit history using live sporting events uniquely public platform". professional athletes, particularly african americans, used professional sports platform social justice activism decades. extending gloved hands skyward racial protest, us athletes tommie smith (centre) john carlos (right) stare downward 1968 olympic medal ceremony [ap photo] 1967, boxer muhammad ali used platform explain refused serve us military's war vietnam. "my conscience won't let go shoot brother, darker people, poor, hungry people mud big powerful america," ali said then. ali subsequently sentenced five years prison draft evasion, fined $10,000 barred competition three years. ruling later overturned us supreme court. next year, us gripped civil rights movement, gold bronze medalists ommie smith john carlos , african americans, raised left fists medal ceremony 200-metre race competition 1968 olympic games mexico city. autobiography, smith explained gesture intended "human rights salute". recently, 2014, players national basketball association (nba) violated dress code rules wore "i can't breathe" t-shirts - reference eric garner, african american killed police officer year - warm-ups. 2016, competitors women's national basketball association, wnba, gained national media attention donned shirts supporting black lives matter civil rights movement. today's protests continue make waves every level, activist carl dix hopes contribute wider movement trump administration. "it's important people support nfl players spread [the protests]," dix said. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5611361059001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5611361059001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > taking knee: nfl platform race politics pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news sport racism united states us & canada
renderpagesvideo('5623470295001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); baseball may home united states also flourishing outside heartland. netherlands crowned european champions 22 times two finishes behind traditional powers world baseball classic. al jazeera's paul rhys reports hoofddorp netherlands. sport netherlands europe
renderpagesvideo('5619630511001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); american football fans split controversy surrounds players' rights kneel protest national anthem. president donald trump repeatedly accused players unpatriotic. nfl's owners decided sanction protest. al jazeera’s rob reynolds reports oakland, california. sport human rights united states us & canada
several san francisco 49ers players knelt performance national anthem sunday [eric risberg/ap photo] professional american football players continued protests police brutality sunday despite ongoing blowback right-wing us president donald trump politicians. least 22 players across national football league (nfl) participated protests, according associated press' count. monday morning, trump tweeted latest series verbal attacks protesting athletes, accusing players "showing total disrespect" country flag. two dozen nfl players continue kneel national anthem, showing total disrespect flag & country. leadership nfl! — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) october 23, 2017 san francisco 49ers-dallas cowboys game sunday, least eight players 49ers knelt anthem, player cowboys participated protest. cowboys owner jerry jones vowed bench player team kneels customary performance. dallas' defensive linesman david irving, however, raised fist end game solidarity ongoing protests. several players teams across league knelt, raised fists stayed locker room anthem. protest gestures come trump politicians ramp criticism campaign police brutality, started last year former 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick began kneeling anthem. kaepernick's public stand police brutality disproportionately targets african americans started august 2016, quickly spread throughout league continued inspire athletes kneel national anthem well 2017 season. 'force nfl's hand' trump first entered public debate protests urged nfl owners fire players involved protests last month campaign-style rally huntsville, alabama. "get son b**** field right now, out, he's fired. he's fired," trump told crowd. although trump said comments "nothing race", critics argued president motivated racism hope distract public describe policy failures. issac bailey, journalist interim member charlotte observer editorial board, argued trump's comments largely backfired. {articleguid} "i doubt would become reality, trump tried force nfl's hands; though protests place year, got lot attention trump's tweet," bailey, also james k batten professor public policy davidson college, told al jazeera. "that forced nfl's hands. shouldn't forget began colin kaepernick courageous enough take knee." nfl protests spilled athletic arenas, sparking similar demonstrations college high school sporting events. earlier month, vice president mike pence stormed game indianapolis colts san francisco 49ers players knelt anthem. 'brand protection' daniel grano, professor teaches sports, politics race university north carolina, charlotte, said trump sought change focus protests. "the original intent protests kaepernick began become largely obscured," told al jazeera, arguing "a set competing interpretations" protests. "the subject race policing still much alive minds players continue protesting," said. "when president trump chimed said protests disrespectful flag, acting upon advancing competing interpretation protests about." roger goodell, nfl commissioner, held meeting nfl executives team owners discuss ongoing protests last week manhattan. decisions regarding punishment players refused stand anthem. subject race policing still much alive minds players continue protesting. daniel grano, professor university north carolina, charlotte last week's meeting new york city, activists confronted cowboys owner jones accused upholding white supremacy threatening punish protesting athletes. 2016, almost quarter 1,093 people police african american, although comprise 12 percent country's population, according guardian's database, counted. killed police, monitoring group, recorded least 969 people killed police far 2017. trump's comments alabama september, several team owners joined players field show unity. many locked arms athletes, nfl opted fine players amass sidelines anthem. grano described owners' actions "brand protection". "the owners single weekend showed apparent form solidarity, wasn't related - estimation - politics protest," said. "it related protection brand." source: al jazeera news racism united states us & canada us sports sport
tuesday's world series baseball game dodgers' stadium los angeles broke records heat. played around 40 celsius, makes hottest game venue since series began 1903. us national weather service reported "another record-breaking hot day across southwest california tuesday, nine records broken, including downtown los angeles broke 108-year-old record reached 42 degrees". noted weather underground , (wu), late-year heat wave really got going monday continued santa barbara los angeles san diego. orange county, city fullerton soared 41.7c monday. according wu weather historian christopher burt, likely highest single temperature recorded anywhere united states late year. another impressive mark made downtown los angeles (the university southern california campus) thermometer hit 39c. prior monday, downtown station never topped 38c october 17, records going way back 1877. heat wave causative santa ana winds created large, near-record-strength dome high pressure settled great basin, hundred kilometres northeast los angeles. difference air pressure high-pressure system lower pressure southern california driven gusty northeast winds southern california. since winds originated desert areas, hot dry. red flag warning (fire danger) issued national weather service, stating "this event especially concerning multiple day nature it, seen yet season, events history large fires". average temperature la october 24c, figure revisited end weekend. source: al jazeera sport weather united states us & canada
renderpagesvideo('5640236719001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); corruption scandal hanging college basketball us . least eight people, including coaches sportswear executives, charged part major bribery investigation. investigation looking kickbacks allegedly paid shoe companies coaches universities, funnelled towards locking top recruits. al jazeera's gabriel elizondo reports new york. sport united states us & canada
black former professional footballer, paul mortimer familiar discrimination football field. late 80s, english midfielder receiving end racist abuse teammates opposing players objects thrown fans matches. without support club, mortimer said witnessed kinds discrimination close teenage years. "as black guy, experienced lot discrimination, mostly racism, also, throughout career, witnessed lot aspects discrimination - sexism, homophobia, islamophobia, visibility discrimination. things experienced," former charlton aston villa player said. heat high-pressure games, hooliganism fans derogatory remarks hurled opposing players far common international football. {articleguid} argentine fans chanted anti-gay slurs visiting peruvian team tense goalless draw qualifying match capital buenos aires last month. fifa, football's world governing body, handed argentine football association $40,000 fine tuesday. monetary penalty among series fifa imposed latin american nations, including brazil , peru, chile mexico homophobic chanting fans qualifying games 2018 world cup, due take place russia . "over past two years, strengthened expanded work fight discrimination promote diversity football," federico addiechi, fifa's head sustainability & diversity, said. "as result, seen many positive responses efforts member associations tackle issues racism homophobia football inside stadiums." al jazeera's sports correspondent lee wellings said forms discrimination rife football, homophobia often gets pushed side lack openly gay players. "there advanced plan eradicate homophobia sport," said. "i find it's often tagged end drives racism sexism." 'zero tolerance' despite fifa's efforts, rights groups football experts criticised lack effective action taken football's governing body national associations curb derogatory anti-gay conduct. attempt clamp discrimination promote diversity, fifa introduced new anti-discrimination monitoring system 2018 world cup qualifiers. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5470174935001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5470174935001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: qatar football team faces fifa sanction emir t-shirt (1:47) pageloadedsuccessfully body in, collaboration group fare network, deployed match observers monitor potentially "high-risk" games. fifa's disciplinary code makes mention sexual discrimination, players suspended least five matches offending "the dignity person group persons contemptuous, discriminatory denigratory words actions concerning race, colour, language, religion origin". article 67 code also imposes liability improper spectator conduct, usually pertains fines warnings national federation. "football's governing bodies bad reputation dealing game's problems, proven paltry racism fines," said wellings. mortimer, p rofessional players' engagement manager anti-discriminatory group kick out, believes fifa needs adopt "a zero tolerance policy", move past fines enforce stronger sanctions teams fans. "if incident happens, far i'm concerned, part stadium get shut down, teams suspended tournaments things like that, behaviour fans," said. "forget fining people amount money going enough." fear 'coming out' years legislative wrangling, chile's congress approved same-sex civil unions 2015. gay marriage bill sent congress chilean president michelle bachelet august. while, south american countries, like argentina brazil, legalised same-sex marriage, topic lgbt rights controversial one across continent. homophobic chanting believed result cultural insecurities fanaticism games. football experts say machoism bravado culture sport engenders homophobic rhetoric among fans games. "characterising opponent 'fag' usual practice field sport, used insult associated weakness, lack skills perform certain discipline," said juan pablo morino, sport secretary argentinian lgbt federation. {articleguid} approximately 4,000 professional footballers uk reportedly none openly gay. retired los angeles galaxy defender ex-leeds player robbie rogers became first openly gay male athlete professional us sport 2013. active footballers reluctant come playing careers stigma attached fear targeted locker room. "in football, unthinkable consider option coming decision supposes, addition insults violence opposing fans, loss economic benefits football player perhaps contempt teammates," morino told al jazeera email. follow saba aziz twitter: @saba_aziz talk al jazeera hassan al-thawadi: world cup tool fight terrorism function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5547716259001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news lgbt football fifa sport
renderpagesvideo('5648438438001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); france host 2023 rugby world cup, perhaps bit unexpectedly. ireland leading bid host tournament official evaluation report favoured south africa among three bidders. south african infrastructure legacy 2010 fifa world cup significant factor pushing top three; however, france’s financial vision tournament world rugby turned strongest. al jazeera’s lee wellings reports london, england. sport france
renderpagesvideo('5643921985001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); indigenous women mexico finding sporting way fight back physical sexual violence. mazahua people vulnerable - often within communities. one woman helping change things. al jazeera's john holman reports mexico city. sport mexico latin america
renderpagesvideo('5635175478001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); squash past struggled attract large television audiences. game precision endurance aiming grow global appeal. al jazeera's sohail malik reports doha, qatar . sport qatar middle east
oceti sakowin camp, north dakota - winter stark dangerous great plains north america. blizzards come unexpectedly. do, everything changes. winds literally howl. snow doesn’t drift gently down. lashes horizontally flat landscape, whiting roads blinding venture outside. temperatures plummet arctic lows matter minutes. that’s people camp discovered - twice past seven days. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5238338864001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5238338864001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > what's next north dakota pipeline protesters? pageloadedsuccessfully thousands come camp confluence cannonball missouri rivers support standing rock sioux nation efforts stop dakota access crude oil pipeline cross water upstream reservation. somewhat victory sunday december 4 us army corps engineers denied pipeline company, energy transfer partners, permission dig pipe missouri river. new routes would researched, said corps press release. even campers - call water protectors - celebrated evening, skies filled snow-laden clouds gentle breeze began blow harder harder. roads hollow camp sits became clogged cars people tried drive shelter. pelting snow driven prairie gusts polish ice highway skating rink slipperiness. many drivers discovered cost. dozens vehicles skidded roadside deeps one ember arthen, leverett, massachusetts, us northeast coast. found toyota suv fishtailed drift 60km winds white conditions, camp nearest city, bismarck, north dakota. read more: sioux leader urges dakota pipeline protesters leave okay, thought experienced enough winter driving coping many snowfalls home state. polishing effect plains highway caught surprise. "i going around stuck vehicle started slide was, stuck myself," says. "i hoping stay two weeks least camp, conditions." ember said nighttime temperatures fiercely cold snow heavy enough collapse even winter grade tent. even small fire tent canvas roof touched woodstove. one hurt. "the mood good," says, "but wary. it’s getting colder week." tribal chairman standing rock sioux, david archambault, weather means one thing: people disband camp go home. thanked thousands who’d supported people since protests began, worried getting dangerous there. "if you’re hearing message," archambault said, "you understand that’s it’s time go home. [your support] needed future, you’re welcome come back. don’t think put anybody unsafe situation. go home holidays loved ones." interestingly, that’s quite camp organisers saying. pictures: protesters celebrate army halts dakota pipeline work warning oceti sakowin outlying camps winter severe dangerous, they’re asking people adequately prepared stay keep eye pipeline construction project. night, even cloudy days, blazing spotlights mark pipeline route hills near missouri river seem mock protesters. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5235446276001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5235446276001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > north dakota pipeline halted pageloadedsuccessfully camp spokesman john bigelow, member standing rock sioux nation, said long lights blazed law enforcement vehicles lined hills, people stay. "as water protectors, responsibility stewards water. we’re going where," said. "only [pipeline company] says they’ve stopped drilling called project, wrap camp." yet problem. sleeping flimsy, summer-grade tents, without stoves, even worse, sleeping cars, simply option more. temperatures early mid-december scheduled hit record lows. signs camp lavatories list symptoms hypothermia, camp medics make rounds tents often make sure people staying warm. reporter's notebook: standing rock - thousands rejoice army denies pipeline permit there’s plenty donated food people cook it. fires always burning somewhere. set elaborate shelters - plains native teepees chimneys belching smoke, yurts mongolia even wooden buildings insulated straw foam - welcoming temporary guests seeking warmth. many maintaining presence native americans, sioux, cheyenne, cherokee, ojibwe many nations. centuries interaction us governments broken treaties strengthened determination struggle rights. much depends incoming donald trump administration whether tries quickly restore pipeline project original route. energy transfer partners company blatantly disregards denial permission simply keeps drilling tunnel bedrock. either happen, expect confrontation resume oceti sakowin camp. police, fearing this, still blocking highway holding high ground north camp. whatever happens, dispute far over. source: al jazeera news author daniel lak canada correspondent environment weather protests human rights united states
renderpagesvideo('5553928176001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); houston, texas - first view hurricane harvey above, aboard one last flights allowed land houston. tropical storm trudged way eastward, air pressure immediately dropped harvey's outer bands appeared outside window. spirals white clouds spread across horizon. magnificent troubling sight. read more: hurricane harvey texas threat sunday morning, rain pounding hotel downtown houston running backup generators. rain forecast well coming week. staff said prepared hunker hotel next days, stocked enough food water hopefully last guests. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5552875349001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5552875349001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: hurricane harvey slams southern texas (1:03) camera crew pushed rain, quickly realised close flood. three blocks hotel, water reached top vehicle's tyres. began pass abandoned cars left right, made hasty retreat. plight nothing compared massive amount people currently trapped homes. houston rescue workers responded 1,000 calls help overnight, turning roads boat ramps telling people get roofs. later, another 1,000 calls rescue waiting answered. city leaders calling residents boats help neighbours. large trucks normally used city sanitation commandeered join overwhelmed rescue fleet. asked wet man walking along highway going. said car flooded trying get home wife two children. water patio, said, feared coming hours trapped family would danger. roads closed, going walk 15km reach them. source: al jazeera news author heidi zhou-castro weather united states us & canada
gladys ngwenya, 70, alice ndlovu, 60, sit makeshift clinic sipepa rural hospital temporary camp set people displaced floods [tendai marima/al jazeera] fast facts: zimbabwe's floods tropical storm dineo made landfall mozambique february moved across parts southern africa leaving path destruction zimbabwe 70 bridges damaged 250 people died government declared floods national disaster seeking $100m repair infrastructure sibhula, zimbabwe - musa ndlovu, 97, sehelo msebele, 35, siphiwenkosi ndlovu, 20, standing bank fast-flowing river. three women preparing return home day spent grinding maize. since heavy rainfall triggered tropical storm dineo , left trail destruction across parts southern africa, damaged bridge crossed hovi river, meant wading swimming river's brown water. women live village sibhula, remote settlement home 1,000 people, 550km south-west capital, harare, three weeks trapped two flooded rivers run parallel it; hovi maleme. malamulela ncube, 17, steps forward one women balances sack ground maize shoulder. wades river return sack village. thing three remaining sacks. places fourth shoulder, three women follow lead, hiking skirts dipping shoeless feet river. one one, wade in. joining hands, move curved line pushes current. times fall backwards water, get keep moving reach side. driven desperation, villagers must gamble waters, swimming rapid currents, go search food, medicine basic necessities. army airdropped two flood relief consignments sibhula included maize grain - villagers must cross river reach grinding mill. wellington ncube, 38, one men regularly swims across hovi sibhula. delivering bag food money rolled lips [tendai marima/al jazeera] perilous crossing three women ground 20kg maize, country's staple, mealie meal. sebele hopes feed family five two weeks cornmeal carefully rationing two meals day - porridge morning sadza, thicker, doughy version eaten main meal. two weeks up, sebele ndlovu say willing cross river bridge fixed. people crying water, don't know do. hospital grinding mill side come we'll nothing eat ... musa ndlovu, village head sibhula "people crying water, don't know do," says ndlovu. "the hospital granding mill side river. "we'll nothing eat [if cross]," 97-year-old adds. "it's dangerous cross water like this, there's nothing do, need survive." aware risk taking. but, like sebele, feels it's riskier cross. flooding rivers also affected community's livelihood many depend subsistence farming vending make living. close month, sebele, normally sells vegetables makwe business centre, adjacent rural settlement 'mainland', unable make living. "the flooding rivers really disabled us can't anything; can't work children cannot go school," says. "last year could harvest much drought, much water .... could eat rain, we've lost lot rains. can't earn anything like this." read more: zimbabwe's dams swell rainy season ends local authorities routinely caution crossing flooded rivers, district administrator, judge dube, says little done stop people taking risk. efforts deliver food medical supplies underway, dube says plans moving slowly emergency services, civil protection unit (cpu), still conduct full assessment sibhula. lasting solution, points out, may lay building temporary bridges. "we expect military deployed start putting temporary bridges, don't know resources still mobilised," says. across zimbabwe 70 bridges damaged floods areas, pockets people marooned, cut overflowing rivers. thus far, 250 people died rainy season thousands left homeless . last month, government declared floods national disaster. seeking donor assistance raising close $200m repair destroyed infrastructure, including roads bridges, far raised $35m required amount. siphiwenkosi ndlovu, 20, musa ndlovu, 97 sehelo msebele, 35 (left right), wait journey back across river sacks ground maize meal [tendai marima/al jazeera] 'we ready' although government working partnership local international humanitarian agencies mobilise flood response, united nations called done "huge gaps remain" providing lifesaving assistance affected. two previous years drought, given changing weather patterns expecting floods year little prepared, didn't know would level destruction would come bishow parajuli, un resident coordinator un resident coordinator, bishow parajuli, told al jazeera positive response international donors, african development bank, currently conducting assessment damaged infrastructure. partners united states, britain, japan china promised scale response, says, emergency funding limited. "we two previous years drought, given changing weather patterns expecting floods year little prepared, didn't know would level destruction would come it," parajuli explains. "we appealing support we've received promising response, also aware limited emergency resources global scale serious situations countries well south sudan, yemen nigeria there's famine places." parajuli adds despite promise good harvest next month, un agency, world food programme (wfp), would continue provide food aid people would "finish food quickly". last year, devastating drought left four million people need assistance, according wfp, season's heavy rainfall meant areas crops washed away waterlogged. 'i don't know begin' sipepa, hamlet tsholotsho district country's far west, flooding gwaai river, caused downgraded cyclone dineo, destroyed crops, livestock displaced hundreds people. gladys ngwenya, 70, lost entire crop, livestock furniture floods. currently living sipepa flood victims camp, set government district administrators support international aid agencies grounds sipepa rural hospital accommodate 900 people. says thankful two grandchildren airlifted safety airforce, still worries starting government relocates new area. "we given food eat here, [emergency officials] said help us leave, don't know how; right nothing. chickens maize i'd planted taken water don't even know begin," says. andrew gabela, camp co-ordinator, explains although tsholotsho generally flood-prone district, authorities prepared storm. read more: zimbabwe floods killed 246, made thousands homeless situation control, says, district authorities making plans eventually relocate people safer, less flood-prone area. "we overwhelmed happened, ready all. hadn't expected much damage. help donors, we've started making plans relocate them," gabela says. "but period people new homes built. "they need something start over, we'll cross bridge later, it's one among many challenges we're trying deal with." camp, ngwenya shares large tent dozens women children. although ngos quick response, communal site lacks adequate sanitation facilities, blankets sanitary supplies women. now, villagers live uncertainty future holds. much like country itself, hope able rebuild lives losing much. inside one tents sipepa rural hospital displaced floods offered temporary shelter [tendai marima/al jazeera] follow tendai twitter instagram @i_amten source: al jazeera news author tendai marima tendai marima freelance journalist currently based southern africa. holds doctorate comparative literature currently working post-doctoral research literary representations african women colonial era. humanitarian crises zimbabwe weather africa
reykjavik, iceland - there's running joke among many iceland's glacier guides. "there's much meltwater running ice," say, "someone buy boat." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5220145942001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5220145942001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > iceland struggling tourism boom (2:55) pageloadedsuccessfully financial crash 2008, tourism country flourished record high. effects climate change landscape visible selfie sticks downtown reykjavik. it's expected two million tourists visit country 340,000 year. many visitors pay hundreds dollars experience brief period walking glacier. ice sheets cover roughly 10 percent island, days, guided tours found snaking surface. it's secret, however, glaciers around world retreating, iceland's popular ones melting fast it's creating problems guiding companies. areas, it's even becoming dangerous tourists. hours east reykjavik solheimajokull, glacial tongue sprouts myrdalsjokull ice cap country's south. it's losing 100 metres length year, releasing millions cubic metres water process. past five years, local guide companies forced move car park meltwater formed large lagoon. water also restricted access glacier. watch: ajeats - reykjavik - iceland's recipe survival melt rates 'through roof' dieter van holder spent three years working glacier trekking leader icelandic mountain guides. he's watched lagoon grow exponential rate. constantly reinvent time. dieter van holder, glacier guide "last year lost close 20m altitude surface ice," says. "this going several years, since 2010 melt rates gone roof. "we constantly reinvent time. lot work getting ice maintaining trail. personally, i'm starting fear we're going lose front glacier lagoon. "this quite dramatic, us, many companies operating here." groups tourists guided trips venture front solheimajokull glacier. layers black ash eruption katla volcano 1918 exposed ice melts away [alexander lerche/al jazeera] watch: climate sos - iceland's new carbon capture storage getting glacier simple walking straight ice. glaciers dynamic behave like thick, slowly moving viscous fluid. shift, surface undulates fractures, forcing guides find new routes - every days smaller paths, every week larger ones - hundreds people safely pass ease. finding path difficult, climate change speeding melt rates, maintaining daily use tiring work. "i'm managing couple guides today," van holder says. "my main objective free enough go chopping ice route that's usable. "we cut ice make path stairs, rather people scrambling falling trying get uneven parts." says stairs usually cut front glacier people get ice. it's getting harder that. "we used walk front, lagoon growing fast, we've pushed one corner gnarliest bit glacier." ice caves form inside glaciers, giving visitors unique perspective falljokull's inner structure. guides say ice caves never survive summer months [alexander lerche/al jazeera] read more: hungry whale - tourists boost iceland's whaling industry dangers tourists: falling boulders guides used lead tourists along side, big rocks falling recently, making route dangerous use, van holder says. "if look slope, massive boulders embedded ice that's still clinging walls. melts away, boulders drop fall floor," says, gesturing arms show huge are. tourists don't notice them, van holder adds. "they see rocks ground think it's ok walk around them." moments later, dashes edge glacier. two american tourists posing pictures, unaware 50 metres heads boulders size small cars. "this closest glacier reykjavik," says van holder, catching breath, telling tourists move away. although guides roped dangerous areas put signs, tourists often ignore them. "for everyone taking day tour go glacier, come here, milking cow many companies. "when access goes, don't know do. right lot companies relying us [tour operator] arctic adventures keep accessible." planned routes essential keeping tourists away loose ice hidden crevasses. require almost daily maintenance, tour groups don't wear sun quickly melting away, solheimajokull shrinking since 1990s. glaciologists estimate iceland's glaciers losing 10km3 ice every year since 1995. tour group begin ascent falljokull glacier following route chopped ice guides. glacier losing 35 metres length every year since 2005 [alexander lerche/al jazeera] pictures: climate change pictures glacier 'changing every days' guides away glacier days say always shocked much disappeared return. "pretty soon, we're going need find new places take tours trips," van holder says. "some time year next, would almost tempted put money inaccessible." two hours drive east falljokull, glaciar tongue southwest corner vatnajokull, iceland's largest ice sheet, second biggest europe. guides work build new bridge across river draining falljokull glacier ahead summer season meltwater run-off increases [alexander lerche/al jazeera] falljokull hugely popular tourists venturing beyond golden circle, popular tourist route, worryingly, glaciers shrinking. 4x4 buses drop tour groups, it's 30-minute walk across glacial rivers, unsorted debris, piles volcanic ash edge ice. water see running top acts like hot knife butter. thomas gruber, glacier guides halfway, nissan pathfinder parked recently formed stream. two guides hastily building makeshift bridge muddy water. way reach glacier without crossing. "some guides building new bridges," says thomas gruber glacier guides. "in last heavy run-off old ones washed away. build anticipation increased melt run-off summer. "this glacier full retreat we're losing 14cm ice day. right it's changing every days. it's quite amazing much goes short period time." scientists measured rate ice change falljokull since 1932. british geological survey icelandic meteorological office found since 2005, losing 35 metres year result decade unusually warm summers. glacier's melting ice contributes erosion, making harder explore hidden features. "the water see running top acts like hot knife butter," thomas adds. "it cuts way ice, creating cracks water flow continue melting away inside. "this also effect ice caves flood water, making inaccessible tours drains away. part glacier standing right gone four six years," says. "if anyone job offers, would great," jokes. "it's bit doom gloom thinking ahead." guide leader dieter van holder points canyon solheimajokull extended beyond years ago. glacier tongue retreating 100 metres year, releasing millions cubic metres water process [alexander lerche/al jazeera] read more: bangladesh's water crisis - story gender tourism boom eyjafjallajokull volcano erupted 2010, large areas glaciers covered thick blanket black ash. year, melt rates accelerated well average, turn speeding growth lagoons. despite eruption, iceland's tourism sector really exploded. local patrons pubs tell prolonged volcanic eruption actually helped promote iceland attracted visitors otherworldly landscape. many locals complain sheer number tourists. even so, sixth iceland's jobs tourism industry. every year, tourists world bring billions dollars revenue, helped grow economy become 10 percent larger crash. recent report organisation economic co-operation development, group 35 mostly rich countries, states 80 percent tourists visit country's unique " icelandic nature ". nothing lasts ever, icelanders understand well. like economy, know adapt changing climate. joke goes: someone buy boat. two glacioloigsts taking temperature readings stand edge fjallsarlon glacial lagoon. large icebergs breaking tongue float edge lagoon eventually drift sea [alexander lerche/al jazeera] boats instead hikes bjorn hroarsson, geologist founder extreme iceland tour company, already plans works. started running tours 1990 forced make hard decisions past. wants take advantage changing conditions improve tourist safety dropping hiking part trips favour ferrying people water. "the solheimajokull glacier lagoon giving us difficulties," says. "it's longer longer distance car park every year, longer hike. solution boat lagoon." says plan start transferring people glacier boat next summer. "it'll much easy safe, take much less time current hike." it's entirely new practice; bjorn says they've successfully used boats past. two guides construct new bridge across meltwater river near falljokull glacier. melt rate changes summer months, run-off increases, often changing river's path [alexander lerche/al jazeera] retreating ice could still cause problems future. glacier must still suitable planning routes on, that's factor tour company guarantee. "we operating day glacier hiking tours reykjavik hvítarvatn glacier lake," adds. "we used boats lake transfer guests glacier." glacier got shorter steep less safe every year, forced stop tours altogether three years ago, hroarsson says. tourist struggles scramble route near base solheimajokull glacier. guides say glacier losing 20 metres ice altitude every year fear glacier inaccessible within two years [alexander lerche/al jazeera] glaciers won't disappear, yet iceland's tourism industry continues grow strong, seeks mitigate problems climate change causing landscape. tour guides spend days managing routes, companies working adapt warming climate less access glaciers. reykjavik talks kayak tours, even discussions making helicopter drop-offs commonplace. options still present logistical financial constraints. another issue concern recovery increased strength icelandic krona since financial crash, led iceland becoming one europe's expensive countries visit, turn making paid tours less affordable. away visitor hot spots, ice sheets still vast, iceland take solace knowing glaciers safe tourists walk time yet. "at least problem - next hundred years," bjorn says. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5446679576001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5446679576001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > earthrise: turning co2 stone iceland pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news author alexander lerche @ alexanderlerche iceland europe weather global warming
people choose live major cities, attachment understanding weather elements tend decrease. many people living large metropolitan areas become detached weather. live air-conditioned hoses apartments commute car, train, air-conditioned offices, returning home end day. addition, living urban areas causes problems. flooding worse cities countryside. heavy rain, drainage systems fail remove water quickly enough prevent widespread flooding. smog major consideration many cities, especially autumn winter months. vehicle factory emissions cause significant respiratory problems. hand, interesting sky flooded street make interesting weather photograph, gallery shows.
violent thunderstorms struck colombian capital, bogota. storms brought large amounts hail, blanketed city transformed winter wonderland. hail deep looked like snow. children buried it, formed snowballs built snowmen. however, storms also triggered flooding tore trees power lines. dangerous mixture water ice flowed roads north city, making impassable causing major disruption transport. numerous people lost power severe weather . christian euscategui, head forecast alert service ideam, told el colombiano storms caused humid air magdalena region north bogota, colliding humidity orinoquia east. ice bogota relatively rare. city's weather described "perpetual spring", nights cool, cold, days warm, hot. frost unknown. amount hail unlikely seen long time come, november particularly wet month bogota, thunderstorms inevitable.
children collect sweet things, teenagers watch horror films, adults dress frighten many pumpkins become backlit scary faces. tradition halloween october 31 much world. widely believed many halloween traditions originated ancient celtic harvest festivals , particularly gaelic festival samhain . festivals may pagan roots; samhain christianised halloween early christian church . festival recognised outside western world, date climatologically significant ends three-month climatological autumn. figures confirmed compared, climatological statisticians, autumn seasons previous years. end october often sees change weather too. indian monsoon withdraws tip india sri lanka second cyclone season begins arabian sea bay bengal. australian cyclone season officially begins. australia south africa seen particularly stormy spring seasons settling summer. china entered winter season northeast monsoon prevalent. united states, last days october brought proper snow northern states. northern europe battered windstorm followed big drop temperature. system responsible still covering belarus snow. western europe, particular iberia, yet realise change season.
calls government address root causes rohingya's plight ignored, writes baulk [ap] correction, august 05, 2015: earlier version article stated world food programme confirmed food rations idps cut 20 percent, however, wfp myanmar office decided hold ration cuts november harvest. year's monsoon rains worst hit myanmar decades, leaving dozens dead thousands displaced across country. scale damage become clearer, sombre inevitability pervaded coverage devastation left cyclone komen. yet hardship faced many severely affected areas - particularly northern kachin states, western rakhine state - primarily result heavens. decades persecution myanmar government, continues unabated today, chief driver suffering ethnic minority regions. following collapse 17-year ceasefire 2011, communities kachin northern states seen dramatic escalation hostilities several ethnic armed organisations (eaos) myanmar army, tatmadaw. human rights violations followed heels conflict. attacks civilians, destruction homes farm fields, sexual violence, torture, restrictions movement regularly reported across areas. human rights abuses human rights abuses - fears caught crossfire - displaced 100,000 people kachin state thousands state. given instability destruction areas, monsoon rains often carry misery death communities living there. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(3877824640001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_3877824640001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > people & power - outcast: adrift burma's rohingya pageloadedsuccessfully looking myanmar's west, persecution faced beleaguered rohingya population rakhine state dominated headlines recent months. commentators argued scale abuses faced rohingya amounts ethnic cleansing . violent attacks rohingya communities severe discrimination caused estimated 100,000 flee myanmar since 2012, left around 140,000 languishing squalid internally displaced persons' (idp) camps. growth extreme nationalist groups targeting rohingya abetted government, done little rein hate speech violence characterised anti-muslim movement. calls government address root causes rohingya's plight ignored, exposure devastation wrought yearly monsoon rains heightened result. deterioration worryingly, situation faced populations looks set deteriorate further. earlier july, world food programme (wfp) confirmed food rations idps cut 20 percent, however, wfp myanmar office decided hold ration cuts november harvest. increasingly, burden protect populations kachin, shan, rakhine states falling grassroots groups. "aid remote idp camps kachin overseen local groups, big international bodies," said seng zin, general secretary kachin women's association thailand (kwat) . "the government interested idps. it's smaller organisations take responsibility communities. situation getting harder every day." spotlight increasingly focused naypyitaw, government found pressure meet obligations international humanitarian law. july, government ratified international covenant economic, social cultural rights (icescr) - reaffirming commitment safeguard right adequate food, housing, education, means subsistence. denying assistance yet, government signing dotted line, tatmadaw troops denying humanitarian assistance civilians displaced fighting kachin state, flood waters rakhine state's many idp camps swelling. government myanmar, ratification standards seems branding exercise meaningful pledge safeguard people's welfare. nothing inevitable death displacement reported last week - contingent decisions made government, stopped. nevertheless, increased level scrutiny government willing face provide opportunity groups demand accountability ongoing abuses. later year, myanmar government undergo universal periodic review (upr) - united nations mechanism serves regular marker country's progress meeting internationally accepted human rights standards. dozens national international civil society organisations submitted reports upr, highlighting ongoing human rights abuses across country. reports unequivocal: displacement, state-sponsored violence denial basic services ethnic states central vulnerability faced populations. deaths stopped nothing inevitable death displacement reported last week - contingent decisions made government, stopped. point amenable attitude myanmar government recent years, arguing suggests real desire improve human rights country. related: myanmar's military: judge, jury, executioner giving credit real progress made detract government's continued failures, disproportionately affect country's marginalised people. government's refusal implement core human rights treaties amplifies devastation at-risk communities face rainy season starts. unless myanmar government takes real, concrete steps address humanitarian situation country, human rights record, monsoon seasons continue harbinger disaster country's vulnerable populations. david baulk gender development consultant, working civil society organisations focusing human rights women myanmar. based chiang mai, thailand. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author david baulk david baulk myanmar human rights specialist fortify rights. human rights humanitarian crises asia weather politics
us secretary state john kerry appears television screens final conference cop21 [ap] countries taking part un framework convention climate change summit paris, faced possibility total failure, elated reach kind agreement. politicians do, convinced many people possible home nations accord signed 195 countries amazing breakthrough document. enthusiasm extremely premature. agreement whittled 31 pages 12 days laborious negotiations jam-packed lofty language idealistic goals. however, totally lacking legally binding mechanism hold governments corporations emission quotas stop global warming reaching devastatingly high levels. greatest challenge world faces get fossil fuels and, possible, keep global warming 1.5 degrees celsius pre-industrial levels. author activist naomi klein said promises made governments part agreement disastrously weak . video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4660296446001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4660296446001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > paris climate agreement anything words? pageloadedsuccessfully "they don't lead us 1.5 degrees celsius 2 degrees. lead us warming 3 4 degrees celsius, beyond catastrophic." government performances check government performances audits carried every five years. governments kept honest? officials claimed countries miss targets could shamed better. paris summit theme, could be: rich countries fail part economic system puts interests fossil fuel corporations people. read more: final warning climate change however, overall pressure reduce eventually keep fossil fuels ground clear message coming paris. long term polluting corporations forced change dramatically many disappear. fossil-fuel corporations multinationals powerful dictate wealthy countries, even united states. fossil-fuel corporations multinationals powerful dictate wealthy countries , even united states. comes huge decisions involving economy, international trade deals, processes cop21 affect business, fossil fuel companies powerful skilled getting way. corporations involved every aspect cop21, including helping pay summit. meanwhile, select non-governmental organisations permitted look draft agreement end day. organisers kept thousands protesters away delegates . largely power corporations wield, cop21 agreement includes mostly business-friendly market place solutions. none words "fossil fuels", "oil" "coal" appears agreement. carbon markets, allow companies make huge profits slow reduce emissions, looked upon favourably. action taken fracking , practice, produces highly damaging methane gas, increase. french foreign minister president cop21 laurent fabius applauds un secretary general ban ki-moon french president francois hollande applaud final conference cop21 [ap] large profits financial institutions already making large profits financing many activities related global warming. common funding clean energy solutions, underwriting green bonds structuring catastrophe-linked securities help clients manage climate change risks. trillions dollars available climate renewable energy projects. us bank goldman sachs created environmental funding framework 2005 allocated $150bn finance clean energy projects 2025. environmentalists see risky assumption, cop21 document counts corporations investing billions dollars create future technologies capable removing huge quantities carbon dioxide atmosphere many decades now. dream technology materialise, keeping emissions reasonable levels pretty much impossible . read more: climate activism - change approach? rapidly increasing concerns global warming, investors concerned fossil fuels eventually become unpopular lose value. september, bank england governor mark carney said investors need concerned potential huge losses sudden shift regulations designed curb global warming use fossil fuels. trillions dollars invested forms non-renewable energy. coal worst carbon dioxide emitter. it's already serious attack, particularly developed countries. market values coal producing corporations falling. china india, two largest users, facing pressure dump coal. value oil fallen tremendously around world opec's decision flood markets. low valuations making possible renewables, particularly solar, compete investment dollars. half global investment new electricity generation renewables. opinion: climate change china: indispensable nation even oil-rich gulf states , solar energy "presents significant opportunity make savings, reduce fuel cost risks, achieve climate ambitions and, time, keep oil gas available export". unfettered capitalism marketplace nemesis clean environment 50 years, aspects marketplace help save environment - way time. nick fillmore toronto freelance journalist specialises climate change issues. formerly senior producer canadian broadcasting corporation, investigative awards environmental reports. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author nick fillmore nick fillmore toronto-based freelance journalist social activist. work cbc 30 years included broadcast several investigative documentaries. member editorial board magazine founder canadian association journalists. humanitarian crises weather politics environment
powerful typhoon slammed japan , killing least four people. died included man hit falling scaffolding, fisherman tending boat, young woman whose car washed away floodwaters. storm also forced cancellation approximately 350 flights caused widespread disruption train services. typhoon lan rapidly weakened crossed southeast country, still produced torrential rain. shionomisaki, southernmost tip honshu, reported staggering 321 millimetres rain. rain poured down, 80,000 people koriyama ordered evacuate homes. concerns city, 200 kilometres north tokyo, could experience widespread flooding river neared top banks, broadcaster nhk said - fortunately afternoon, water levels starting fall. elsewhere western japan, homeowners lucky, several hundred homes inundated. storm also generated huge waves, tossed fishing boats onto shore. container ship stranded swept onto harbour wall, 19 crew members escaped injury. capital, tokyo, largely spared worst storm still pelted torrential rain strong winds. peak, typhoon lan powerful storm sustained winds 250 kilometres per hour, equivalent category 4 hurricane. weakened equivalent category 2 storm landfall. gale force winds (at least 62 km/h) extending approximately 2,220 kilometres, one largest tropical cyclones record. typhoon lan cleared east coast honshu disintegrating western pacific. however, another storm recently developed east philippines. storm expected strengthen rapidly follow similar track typhoon lan. could potentially bring another powerful typhoon shores southeast honshu approximately one week's time. source: al jazeera news weather japan asia pacific
week ago, typhoon lan made landfall japan's main island honshu driven across tokyo. major typhoon, one biggest record, weakening reached japan's capital. another tropical cyclone battering japan. saola neither large powerful predecessor around long enough gather lot moisture bring landslide threat heavy rain. friday, saola passed okinawa. still tropical storm, winds gale force. many flights okinawa's airport cancelled city naha, 141mm rain recorded saola passed over. appearing follow ryukyu archipelago small japanese islands, saolo strengthened become typhoon - barely. wind strength factor determines tropical storm becomes typhoon, saola maintained status 30 hours. real signature saola amount rain capable dropping. encountering kyushu, dumped extraordinary 424mm 24 hours cruise port aburatsu. dangerous amount rain fall mountainous island kyushu. flash flooding landslides usual result. travelling parallel japanese coast, saola soon dropped back tropical storm status and, heading northeast, accelerated 25 50 km/h - remarkably fast-travelling tropical cyclone. luckily honshu, including tokyo, makes time exposure heavy rain much less. rained owase 44 hours - rain always spread long way front saola - contrast aburatsu, owase recorded mere 136mm. thirty-six hours rain tokyo yielded 87mm. travelling away 50km/h, saola chance maintaining characteristics tropical cyclone bring spell heavy rain hokkaido kuril islands monday. kamchatka peninsula, then, likely get month's worth rain tuesday. source: al jazeera weather asia pacific japan tropical storm
seasonal rains brought record-breaking wet weather parts tanzania . heavy downpours led widespread flooding, resulting major travel disruptions. meteorologist hellen msemo reported worst flooding occurred along tanzania's northern coast. much infrastructure damaged, main highway nation's largest city, dar es salaam, cut north country. international airport dar es salaam 174mm rain thursday. heaviest october rainfall since records began 1918. october average 69mm. many places region broke 24 hour rainfall records. kibaha wettest day 53 years 178mm rain. many accidents many roads remain closed time. dozens homes businesses submerged underwater swollen rivers mudslides. source: al jazeera weather africa
unusual tropical storm, selma, formed recently south san salvador coast. winds, worst, limited 70km per hour rain potential country 300mm, within 24 hours. selma unusual forming far east pacific. national hurricane center noted discussion friday morning selma second tropical storm form east longitude 90w record, come atlantic basin tropical cyclone. land bridge joins south north america slim enough places hurricanes cross one side without losing identity. worst case, hurricane sit country like nicaragua, fed warm waters either side. hurricane mitch example: second deadliest hurricane history, beaten great hurricane 1780, devastating nicaragua honduras. mitch killed 7,000 people honduras , 3,800 nicaragua 240 el salvador , mostly rain-induced landslides. again, late october, three countries suffering effects tropical cyclones . means powerful bring threats smaller, yet substantial nature. significant rain last five days nicaragua honduras thunderstorms finally formed recognisable tropical depression. tela, north coast honduras, 399mm fallen far. island roatan, coast honduras, 287mm rain collected. identified tropical depression, 18, high chance becoming storm, point called philippe. forecast track takes northwest caribbean, towards bahamas . owen roberts airport grand cayman already reported 110mm rain, thunderstorms eastern side depression. tropical storm warnings, cover wind strength heavy rain, effect western cuba northwest bahamas. source: al jazeera weather latin america cyclone nicaragua honduras
year's active hurricane season threatens throw another spell damaging weather next days. nicaragua currently bracing possible formation tropical storm clutch storms continues gather western caribbean. showers thunderstorms associated broad area low pressure gradually become organised recently. storms gathered nicaragua's eastern coast, according national hurricane center (nhc), proximity land likely limit development, least while. conditions expected favourable system become organised weekend system gradually moves north across western side caribbean. nhc currently giving 30 percent chance formation tropical storm within next 48 hours. risk goes 40 percent within next five days. regardless development, heavy rain likely cause disruption parts central america cuba next days. rains already begun. honduran town tela recorded 137mm rain wednesday. meanwhile, town flores guatemala recorded 320mm rain 24-hour period wednesday thursday. rains usually ease time year, even wetter international airport guatemala city two months' worth rain. whopping 361mm rain fell 24 hours. october average 130mm. source: al jazeera nicaragua weather latin america
house destroyed strong wave beira [andrew mambondiyani/al jazeera] beira, mozambique - albano joze, stares blankly group fishermen casting nets shallow waters coast indian ocean, near beira, mozambique's second largest city. kicks lump soil shakes head frustration. "i living 10 years, never seen sea violent years," says joze, informal trader city, metres average sea level. "one night woke find rooms house filled water household property destroyed". settlements beira, mozambique channel, poorly planned, houses badly built, leaving many risk floods. think gods angry? hope problem floods go away soon albano joze, beira resident daviz simango, beira's mayor since 2003 influential politician, previously claimed water-borne diseases malaria, even rare cases cholera, pose serious threat. "every year experiencing violent storms floods making lives difficult," joze says weary sigh. "we can't move away sea lives depend it, one way another." traverses breadth length coastal area beira selling assortment wares, mostly fishermen. "i'm fisherman fishermen customers, can't imagine leaving place. survive leave? "do think gods angry us whatever reasons? hope problem floods go away soon". problem going away anytime soon. vendors sell range items fishermen beira [andrew mambondiyani/al jazeera] according global facility disaster reduction recovery (gfdrr), mozambique - coastal cities slowly swallowed rising sea level - ranks third among african countries exposed multiple weather hazards. home 30 million people, southern african country suffers periodic cyclones, droughts, floods, related epidemics. " floods occur every two three years, higher levels risk central southern regions," says gfdrr. "climate change likely worsen current climate variability, leading intense droughts, unpredictable rains, floods uncontrolled fires. " data mozambique's national institute disaster management (ingc) shows increase natural disasters country past 30 years. 60 percent population lives coastal areas, meaning large numbers exposed rising sea level climate change extremes. houses destroyed strong tidal surges beira [andrew mambondiyani/al jazeera] tropical cyclones build indian ocean, sending water pummels coastal cities beira maputo, mozambique's largest city. beira's increasing population poor infrastructure mean city vulnerable flood damage; residential areas lie sea-level. 19th-century city designed host 30,000 people, today 500,000 people live beira. struggle poverty. new developments simango, beira's mayor, says $100m needed make city resilient climate change. figures plans little quell residents' anger. "beira far developed today," says rildo rafael, lives city. bento saide, smallholder farmer near beira, says rising sea levels flood land salty water, rendering crops useless. "we don't idea water keeping coming destroying crops," says. residents worried rising sea level [andrew mambondiyani/al jazeera] effort save beira, city authority private companies 2014 drew "masterplan beira 2035", climate-adaption initiative implemented next 18 years. peter letitre project manager netherlands-based company, deltares, helped draft plan. speaking al jazeera, said plan involved "several new developments", failed give details. 2015, told bulawayo24: "we foresee informal settlements relocated new areas. complex process cooperation inhabitants important." entrepreneurs private companies needed build houses new residential areas, said, along new roads, drainage infrastructure hotels. "in words, beira waits business people companies [to support implementation plan]," said. mayor simango respond al jazeera's request comment previously told media projects improve drainage way. effort reduce risk, old lagoon also converted retention area. city extensions planned higher areas lower risk. yet believe measures may still enough. "if proper planning, 50 years, beira destroyed," says resident rafael. barricades built stop strong waves beira [andrew mambondiyani/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news weather environment mozambique africa
water reservoirs jordan currently record low [the associated press] water shortages jordan likely get far worse coming years, according recent study stanford university . researchers said that, absence international climate policy action, country could receive 30 percent less rainfall 2100 annual temperatures could increase 4.5 celsius. would double number duration droughts compared 1981-2010 period, raising concerns country already dealing water shortages. study reinforces warning issued world bank august named jordan, iraq , lebanon, morocco syria countries middle east north africa experience significantly increased water stress driven climate change. report, world bank described region global hotspot unsustainable water use. currently, reservoirs jordan record low - one-fifth full - vital winter rains becoming increasingly erratic. seems little respite country, draws 160 percent water ground replenished nature. despite importance, little incentive conserve precious resource. use water irrigation remains heavily subsidised, wastage major issue. half jordan's water used agriculture, produces small share local food supply. estimated almost 50 percent water supply lost due misuse theft. subsidy also means farmers grow water-intensive crops bananas tomatoes. government cracking illegal water use announced slight increase price, ali subah, assistant secretary-general ministry water irrigation, says country views desalination answer water issues. trouble solutions often depend cross-border cooperation. jordan's flagship red sea desalination project, example, faced repeated delays, recently regional diplomatic crisis led scaling back cross-border contacts since summer. solution found, fear water crisis jordan get worse. source: ap news agency environment jordan weather middle east
families rescuers desperately searching mud-plastered rubble victims flooding mudslide southwest colombia killed nine, 19 still missing. la paila river burst banks near municipality corinto cauca department 6:40pm local time (23:40 gmt) tuesday, sending water, mud debris crashing streets houses. corinto mayor edward fernando garcia said six blocks municipality, home 32,000 people, devastated, adding 28 people injured. said four people still missing, number went up, following police reports. local news media reported least 37 homes destroyed neighbourhoods la colombiana, la playa esmeralda towns carrizales, pedregal el tablon, although due force mudslide, number likely increase. troops police helped residents rescue operation heavy machinery used clear mud devastated area. president juan manuel santos urged colombians take precautions flooding continued rains. residents evacuated fear slides. source: reuters news agency weather colombia latin america
dogs replaced pigs animal choice hunting truffles italy [stefano rellandini/reuters] white truffle season started italy , crop seriously depleted. hailed "diamond kitchen", fragrant white truffle delicacy like other. thought superior black counterparts, partly notoriously difficult find. unlike black truffles can't cultivated plantations grow natural, wild environment, woods northwest italy central europe . found five 20 centimetres ground near roots trees, found well-trained animals. traditionally, pigs used hunt truffles. pigs excellent sense smell, rather keen taste delicacy tended gobble treasure. also deemed bullish finding treats. truffle fruiting body fungal colony, fungus cannot produce nutrients. known mycorrhizal, means grow association roots another plant, stealing carbohydrates nutrients need plant. delicate fungal colony disturbed, could prevent truffles growing following year. over-enthusiastic pigs often damaged colony, much outlawed italy hunting truffles. dogs used hunt treasure instead season runs autumn late february. however, last 25 years 30 percent decrease number truffles, places disappeared altogether. truffles don't like extremes temperature extremes moisture. soil must well-drained, cannot bone dry. thought drought gripped italy past years large impact delicacy. this, together recent severe storms, well increased plantation vines, severely reduced crop size. despite reduction number truffles, international white truffle fair currently taking place alba, northwest italy. highlight auction, live satellite links dubai hong kong, hong kong offered winning bid year's largest truffle. well-rounded truffle, weighing 850g attracted price $87,000. however, record price ever paid single white truffle, $330,000 2007 owner casino macau. clearly man loves food! source: al jazeera news europe weather environment italy
2015-16 el nino event major phenomenon, affecting weather worldwide. one swing slow pendulum called el nino southern oscillation (enso). natural system whereby warm water equatorial pacific appears slosh west east back again. side pendulum swing called la nina, female child, spanish. boy opposite girl, la nina produces many opposite weather effects el nino. expect la nina last, approximately 75 percent probability, least april 2018. brings strong upwelling cold, nutrient-rich water along peruvian coast, boosting fish catch. periodic failure industry first alerted us alternative swings el nino (fishing collapse) la nina (abundant catch). importantly, moving warm water one side pacific moves weather patterns whole world. major areas uplift transposed west, taking heaviest rain them. effects elsewhere world current la nina notably dramatic: next four months, likely be: much wetter normal in: much drier normal in: northern australia us gulf coast indonesia malaysia southeastern africa northern brazil may well colder, yet drier normal alaska western canada, cold often penetrating northern great plains western us. variations weather might otherwise expected, northern winter, may caused la nina. however, one influence atmosphere. warming world produces equally dramatic changes - loss complete ice cover arctic ocean, winter, likely influence la nina europe winter. reading: http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/precip/cwlink/mjo/enso.shtml source: al jazeera weather africa europe asia pacific us & canada
athens, greece - flash floods killed least 11 people western outskirts greek capital, athens, rescue teams still searching missing individuals. pageloadedsuccessfully deaths wednesday took place mandra, nea peramos magoula areas, authorities town megara said searching several missing residents. "we hundreds calls help," stavros fotiou, vice mayor megara, told al jazeera telephone. "we trying access areas open roads, rain still hasn't stopped," added. fotiou could yet confirm number damaged houses vehicles, said local municipal authorities working fire department help people displaced. storm clouds seen flooded street mandra mandra [alkis konstantinidis/reuters] yiannis kemmos, local reporter scene floods, said "was lot panic heaviest rains". "many cars destroyed damaged streets, lot people outside homes flooded," told al jazeera telephone. "people waiting help, don't seem immediate danger anymore." prime minister alexis tsipras said post twitter "deeply saddened" loss life caused "the catastrophic storm". said government team dispatched area coordinate local authorities rescue operations relief efforts. nikos voutsis, president greek parliament, released statement expressing condolences families victims. according greek media, heavy rains expected continue throughout evening. hristos loukas (l) wife, konstantina, stand front destroyed house mandra [alkis konstantinidis/reuters] source: al jazeera news europe greece weather
enveloped thick, choking shroud toxic smog, new delhi declared public health emergency. schools closed wednesday, second day fog crisis, remain shut sunday. pollution trackers suggest fog reached worst level far year, high breathing air compared worse smoking 50 cigarettes day. fog pollution #delhi today bad started cause accidents road ! #pollution #airpocalypse pic.twitter.com/gf2slagfdk — mégane guillaume (@meganeguillaume) november 8, 2017 neighbouring pakistan, too, flights cancelled lahore, school times delayed hospitals overflowed. new delhi, smog levels pm 2.5, particles damaging health, reached 40 times world health organization's safe limit. vehicles drive heavy smog delhi, india [cathal mcnaughton/reuters] arvind kejriwal, chief minister delhi, quick comment worsening pollution situation capital. "every year happens part year. find solution crop burning adjoining states," said, referring smoke caused burning crops northern indian states near delhi. estimated 35 million tonnes set afire punjab haryana every year, contributes haze smog new delhi. happening? approaching known "fog season". occurs northeasterly monsoon draws cool, dry air himalayas. why? air cool. also denser warm air stable. stability means air pressure tend rise northern plains india. high pressure acts like lid atmosphere traps pollution atmosphere. unfortunately, fireworks recent diwali festival, also huge amount stubble [crop] burning time year. long go on? occasional bouts rainfall offer relief. however, season goes throughout winter, right february sometimes later lengthening days warmer sunshine finally start affect local climatic conditions. effects? world health organization (who) says website, page regarding india: "air pollution major risk factor heart disease, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (umbrella term several progressive lung diseases including emphysema) lung cancer, increases risks acute respiratory infections exacerbates asthma." least 1.5 million people died effects air pollution india 2012, according data. according lancet medical journal, burning solid fuel cooking released pm 2.5 pollutant killed 500,000 people 2015. fog also already started cause road accidents, social media footage showed. cows stand side road truck drives lights smog greater noida, near new delhi, india [r iyer/associated press] source: al jazeera news asia environment weather india pakistan
first season's winter storms built northern afghanistan . brought thunderstorms kabul significant snow mountains salang, north. spillover stirred air pakistan brought rain lahore islamabad. visibility increased hazy four kilometres cities 1,000 metres less fog pollution. india, haryana state new delhi benefitted change weather. smog enveloped much pakistan, every winter, causing highway accidents respiratory problems, forcing many residents stay home. authorities advised people limit road travel. highway police official said 10 people killed 25 injured road accidents linked poor visibility various parts punjab province past two weeks. pakistani meteorologist mohammad riaz said pollution, caused dust, burning crops, emissions factories brick kilns pakistan neighbouring india, expected linger middle month. advised people wear face masks protect respiratory ailments. average air pollution pakistan's major cities four times higher world health organization limits. although reports said air quality year better last year, pollution levels capital recently hit 18 times healthy limit. still winter weather traps pollution northern pakistan northern india occasional winter weather disturbances clear air. main irritant particular smog smoke particles 10 microns or, abundantly, 2.5 microns. irritating probable carcinogens washed rain. inevitably, weather settles again, increase pollutants thicken smog "very unhealthy" "hazardous" levels human activities sole contributor. source: al jazeera news agencies weather health environment asia india
least 27 people killed 22 missing, according vietnam news, typhoon damrey ripped southern vietnam . devastating storm struck saturday - week country welcomes world leaders asia-pacific economic cooperation (apec) summit. vietnam stranger cyclones accuweather reported strongest area 16 years. damrey, cyclone number 12 year, made landfall near nha trang equivalent strength category 2 hurricane. steady winds 140 kph higher gusts reported sunk many 228 vessels - mostly small fishing boats coast phu yen province - 17 people missing crew cargo ship. 36,000 people coastal gio district ho chi min city evacuated thousands houses damaged 600 destroyed. hundreds trees electricity poles felled, taking power supply out. maybe significantly destruction 40,000 hectares crops. heavy rain high tide combined inundate number areas ho chi min , many roads downtown districts half-metre water. rain heavier still north centre typhoon. hue flooded 93mm rain northern limit heavy rain. quang ngai seemed catch downpour - outstanding 580mm since damrey's rain started friday. mostly disintegrated, damrey spent sunday crossing neighbouring cambodia , dropping least 100mm rain along path gulf thailand. source: al jazeera news agencies cyclone weather vietnam cambodia
bentiu, south sudan - onset rainy season exacerbated ongoing humanitarian crisis south sudan. un warns four million people risk food insecurity, young children facing highest risk malnutrition. one-year-old chieng battling life weeks. father peter sits side, fending relentless assault flies. chieng suffers acute diarrhoea, suspected tb fighting respiratory failure. ribs protrude visibly thin skin chest rapidly pumps air tiny body. chieng one 58 children admitted doctors without borders (msf) intensive therapeutic feeding centre bentiu's un protection civilians (poc) site. peter expresses hope chieng getting better says clinic chance survival. speaks, thunderstorm erupts, putting end week-long dry spell unusual time year. within minutes, camp gets submerged mud water. medical staff fear latest downpour bring new wave admissions - deaths. "the children already malnourished little fat keep warm. rains, easily develop cough catch pneumonia, makes condition serious," helmi emmen, paediatric nurse msf clinic, told al jazeera. next morning tells al jazeera chieng one three children passed away overnight. child mortality bentiu's poc site reached alarming levels, approximately four children age five dying per day. aid workers fight uphill battle deplorable water sanitation conditions camp, provide fertile ground diseases. "repeating cycles infections accompanied drop appetite often result children eventually developing malnutrition. never quite get better next infection comes along," vanessa cramond, msf's health adviser, explains. crowded conditions nowhere else go approximately 45,000 internally displaced persons (idps) sought refuge poc site near bentiu. constitute largest share 100,000 people currently living un bases result south sudan's recent violent conflict . additional million displaced around country, unlikely return home anytime soon given lack respect ceasefire government opposition forces. increasing likelihood protracted humanitarian crisis, un ngos trying cope overcrowded conditions bentiu camp. "we trying best catch needs ' difficult rainy season plus insecurity outside," says nora echaibi, medical team leader msf bentiu. eat per day. - mary nyajak, internally displaced person mother 10 pageloadedsuccessfully pageloadedsuccessfully mid-june, four litres clean water supplied per day compared minimum international standard 15 litres, forcing many people draw water contaminated water sources. one pit latrine available per 241 people, resulting substantial open defecation around camp. heavy rains muddy soil pose additional logistical challenges water sanitation teams trying expand maintain critical infrastructure. ongoing insecurity fighting outside un base, population largely reliant food aid. wfp conducts biweekly food distributions, yet ensuring families get right amount nutritional intake proven difficult given high fluctuations population levels well frequent sharing families within, well outside camp. "we eat per day," mary nyajak, mother 10 told al jazeera. four children stay inside camp, six others hide bush attending family's cattle. "sometimes family members come give food take back," nyajak says. sharing food extended families often means children, weakest members family, fall short requirements. severe food insecurity risk aid agencies warn rainy season compounds humanitarian crisis already affects almost third south sudan's population 11.3 million. according un estimates, 3.5 million people suffer food insecurity, number expected increase 4 million august. although famine yet declared people fall categories three (acute food insecurity) four (humanitarian emergency) un's five scale integrated food security phase classification, situation could quickly deteriorate. give assistance right people, ensuring hang difficult. - sue lautze, deputy humanitarian coordinator head fao south sudan pageloadedsuccessfully pageloadedsuccessfully "we worried population 3.5 million, particularly phase four, additional shocks, lack access humanitarian assistance continued inability traders come commercial goods, means population extremely vulnerable decline," sue lautze, deputy humanitarian coordinator head fao south sudan told al jazeera. diversions aid intended beneficiaries parts population, including armed groups, risk diluting relief efforts. kilometres away bentiu poc site, usaid grains openly get sold rubkona market. many customers spla soldiers rubkona's fourth division. sue lautze says aid diversions difficult trace. "we give assistance right people, ensuring hang difficult. currently investigating allegations food diversion." past six months conflict exacerbates effects long-term food security. massive displacements ongoing fighting prevented farmers tending fields. development programmes aimed increasing farming productivity livestock health come grinding halt, thus laying foundations long-term dependency humanitarian aid. funding access constraints despite growing needs, international donor support fallen short requirements thus far. $756m received towards $1.8bn consolidated humanitarian appeal cover ongoing emergency 2014. lack funding compounded 30 percent drop oil production result conflict, prompting government cut much needed development funds favour spending areas. "we producing 175,000 barrels [of oil] per day, sufficient pay salaries work government, area development, impact bad," ateny wek ateny, spokesperson office president, told al jazeera. gaining access vulnerable populations challenge amid ongoing fighting. areas limits aid agencies, situation along front-lines complicates liaison relevant authorities ensure smooth passage aid. proliferation armaments within population along rising number often autonomous checkpoints implies orders top always get respected ground. wfp recently confirmed instances looting tend occur especially areas change hands government rebels. “more recently 4,600 metric tonnes looted, enough feed population 275,000 people per month,” joyce luma, wfp’s country director south sudan told al jazeera. indefinite adjournment peace talks, lack mechanism enforce ceasefire, hostilities well humanitarian crisis unlikely subside. " main problem fighting. lack respect cessation hostilities agreements number one access constraint, " lautze told al jazeera. source: al jazeera author simona foltyn africa south sudan famine
puntland, somalia - week inauguration, president mohamed abdullahi farmajo declared state disaster drought-stricken country somalia, lives 6.2 million people risk. even ongoing war al-shabab continues african union forces (amisom) fight assist fragile government, looming famine become priority. drought trial involved somalia's struggles. test international community’s response, government's ability assist, strength security provided african union forces. far north somalia, three years little rain increasingly disastrous effects population reliant land. parched earth failed produce food camels goats people depend income, meat, milk children. local leaders puntland estimate pastoralists already lost 65 percent animals. men accompany remaining livestock hunt grazing land, women children migrating towards towns main roads search alternative sources food. displaced people setting tents along roads hope receiving aid passing vehicles. it's women, children, elderly wait assistance heat dust. coming months, word famine used describe crisis somalia, mean help never came.
somali people carry turkish somali flags gather support turkish president tayyip erdogan government somalia's capital mogadishu, july 16, 2016 [feisal omar/reuters] jerome jarre's viral hashtag, #turkishairlineshelpsomalia , yet another attempt draw worldwide attention famine somali peninsula, somali people need organised, short-term well long-term response ensure crisis contained, happen future. somalia, cycle long droughts followed famines going many decades. now, five million somalis need immediate assistance order prevent another famine . "this drought created biggest displacement people country," said adan adar, country director american refugee committee. somalis world, well large number local international ngos , collecting sending donations. order save many people possible, immediate large-scale humanitarian campaign effort followed sustainable development strategy help build resilient state institutions control negative effects future drought occurrences necessary. model turkish government employed 2011 2012 offers innovative perspective. therefore, donor countries must consider adopting somalia . humanitarian response video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5349821093001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5349821093001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: urgent aid needed prevent famine somalia: (2:49) pageloadedsuccessfully humanitarian agencies international organisations started rescue efforts raising awareness world community. early march, united nations secretary-general antonio guterres, paid unannounced yet timely visit somalia order mobilise international community help rescue people affected drought. fact, past, guterres consistent supporter somali people. instance, commissioner unhcr , pressured kenyan somali governments respect human rights refugees. recently 2011, somali people experienced one worst famines horn africa region, killed 250,000 people displaced least one million. book famine somalia, daniel maxwell nisar majid rightly characterised responses famine " collective failures ". 2011, recep tayyip erdogan , current president turkey , first high-profile figure visited somalia , intention raising awareness international community. opinion - erdogan: hero somalia present time, even though millions somalis brink starvation, lack attention support world community. therefore, next weeks crucial controlling damage drought. perhaps, countries gulf cooperation council ( saudi arabia , qatar, kuwait, united arab emirates, oman bahrain) well positioned lead short-term humanitarian efforts somalia strong economies, geographic proximity, cultural historical relations somali people. turkish model somalia, lack functioning state, mechanisms control droughts becoming famines. order reverse establish functioning state institutions, believe, learn several lessons model turkey employed 2011. first, turkish model combined aid development. instance, 2012-2014, turkish red crescent managed rajo camp 29,000 internally displaced people mogadishu ( pdf ). time, kilometres camp, turkish development agency private corporation brought large construction equipment built major roads mogadishu. second, turkey provided direct often unconditional assistance somali government. unlike western donors, ankara gave direct budgetary assistance previous administration mogadishu. hopefully, new government. ground perhaps important factor helped turkey receive widespread support somalis. third, turkish model focused high-impact infrastructure development projects. example, included hospitals, airport major roads. fourth, since capacity somali institutions low, ankara used public-private partnerships deliver capital projects. turkish companies managed mogadishu airport port, delivered construction tarmac roads. turkish airways regularly flies mogadishu. new terminal airport, hopefully, airlines fly country. even though companies interested making profits entrepreneurial adventures, somalis still benefitted presence. turkish companies forced somali businesses compete. companies arrive somalia, people get jobs choices. prices fall quality service improve. finally, ground perhaps important factor helped turkey receive widespread support somalis. turkish diplomats aid workers stayed country, helped understand somali people needs better. them, need mapping studies. staying ground significantly reduced administrative cost well. sustainable strategy video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5315596565001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5315596565001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story - somalia matter? (24:56) pageloadedsuccessfully donor countries provided billions dollars assistance needy somalis last couple decades - somalis appreciate. recently, world community helped rescue millions somalis famine 1991 2011. fact european union , united states donors supported somali people many ways. indeed, besides contributing recovery development country, somali diaspora western gulf countries frontlines rescue efforts somalia. said, maximise impact billions dollars aid west, gulf countries others provide somalia, current aid paradigm must revisited. date, donors invested infrastructure long-term impact projects. important relief capacity building projects are, useful invest major, capital projects tarmac roads, ports hospitals. turkish aid model opened new doors somali people. western gulf donors follow suit invest long-term projects help empower state institutions, prevent another humanitarian catastrophe contribute economic growth country. opinion: tackle repetitive droughts horn africa short, hundreds thousands somalis verge starvation. must rescue many people possible large-scale humanitarian efforts. hopefully, gcc countries lead campaign. so, must learn 2011 experience model turkey employed. simultaneous relief development efforts necessary. afyare elmi associate professor qatar university's gulf studies program. author understanding somalia conflagration: identity, political islam peacebuilding. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author afyare abdi elmi afyare elmi teaches international affairs department qatar university. famine somalia humanitarian crises turkey aid
felix corzo jimenez, farmer chiapas, mexico, examines one many maize plants infected tar spot complex [johnson/cimmyt] people four countries - yemen, south sudan, somalia nigeria - teeter brink famine, seems progress towards ending hunger sadly inadequate. confronted question: vulnerable communities? have, fact, made major strides: global hunger lowest level despite population growth. regions lag behind, catastrophic consequences. host new challenges, unprecedented temperatures rainfall extremes, coming together timeless challenges, conflict natural disasters, block quest zero hunger. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4887303053001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4887303053001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: plants protected changing world? (25:15) pageloadedsuccessfully need use tools disposal make world free hunger reality, one major ally isn't getting global attention deserves: crop plant biodiversity. crop plant biodiversity term used describe genetic resources crop plant - either growing today previously collected. biodiversity hardy traits disease resistances heat tolerance built in. thousands years, farmers worldwide evolved diverse array food crops based traits. plant breeders used genetic resources decades breed food crops resilient shocks stresses, ensuring food nutritional security ever-growing numbers people. biodiversity habitats, genetic resources naturally found, shrinking. global plant animal biodiversity declined 30 percent 1990 2007 , twice much tropical regions. cannot afford let continue. biodiversity helps us protect food supplies environment know sustainable agricultural practices crucial ensuring food nutritional security future generations, also crucial ensuring health environment, preserves biodiversity habitats. biodiversity used breed food crops resistant pests, diseases drought, enabling farmers use less fungicide, insecticide water farms, thus reducing impact environment. recent work international maize wheat improvement center ( cimmyt ), example, identified maize varieties resistant tar spot complex disease . used smallholder farmers southern mexico , whose crops severely affected disease, plant breeders also use develop new disease-resistant varieties. read more: affected climate change, how? new crop varieties also often improve yield, making existing farmland productive reducing need clear land agriculture. conserves area biodiversity habitats reduces greenhouse gas emissions associated deforestation. major priority initiatives global environment facility's new programme fostering sustainability resilience food security 12 countries across sub-saharan africa, believe could mitigate 20 million tonnes carbon. seeds save lives restore livelihoods conflict natural disasters seeds nature's way conserving passing plant biodiversity one generation next. reason, collecting conserving seeds library-like seed germplasm banks critical food nutritional security. natural disasters strike – like typhoon haiyan philippines , hurricane mitch honduras – seeds farmers rely food income wiped out. farmers philippines honduras recovered seeds lost varieties thanks germplasm bank cimmyt maintains. germplasm bank contains 170,000 maize wheat varieties across globe. read more: first seed library sprouts palestine conflict also threatens seed supplies. maize seed cimmyt, adapted rwandan conditions, assisted farmers return lands following horrors rwandan genocide. like sound investment portfolio balances short-term opportunities long-term security, ramping investment enhanced conservation understanding crop plant biodiversity now, could secure future without hunger. examples show never know where, need rely biodiversity hit. greatest insurance policy unforeseen challenges food security you, children, may need. must done bring crop plant biodiversity rightful role eliminating hunger? time ditch short-term solutions react persistent series acute crises, localised famines natural disasters, tempted delay investing long-term solutions like associated genetic resources, take years, sometimes decades reach farmers. however, like sound investment portfolio balances short-term opportunities long-term security, ramping investment enhanced conservation understanding crop plant biodiversity could secure future without hunger. identifying genetic resources useful specific often unanticipated need, newly emerging crop disease, like searching needle haystack. investing today characterising collections stored germplasm banks greatly accelerate speed search. think like cataloguing books library – genre, subject, language, author, page count, etc. – help find right book quickly. difference is, book could stop famine begins. know genetic resources, quickly effectively able use responding future needs. practice runs perform, working plant breeders farmers enrich crop varieties needed desired traits using genetic resources, better prepared be. ensuring crop plant biodiversity protected, conserved, categorised, made available used may best strategy end hunger. today, un international day biological diversity , let's push forward making sure biodiversity recognised one important allies ending hunger securing food future generations. mohamed bakarr lead environmental specialist global environment facility (gef). kevin pixley director genetic resources program international maize wheat improvement center. authors mohamed bakarr mohamed bakarr lead environmental specialist global environment facility (gef). kevin pixley kevin pixley director genetic resources program international maize wheat improvement center. environment famine agriculture
photograph september 2016 shows malnourished boy laying bed outside family's hut hodaida, yemen [abduljabbar zeyad/reuters] last two decades seen significant expansion international, regional domestic accountability mechanisms array international crimes variety forgotten victims. much activity focused conduct senior military political leaders control significantly contribute excesses battlefield. however, becoming clear, focus adequately confront scale scope victims living path armed conflict yoke brutalising regimes. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5545551471001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5545551471001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: seven million yemen face threat famine (2:13) pageloadedsuccessfully year seen resurgence famine . south sudan enduring first famine declared globally six years. nigeria , somalia yemen brink famine. each, deliberate political military action contributed resulting death injury thousands innocent civilians, demanding serious consideration given prosecuting responsible. yemen emblematic problem may provide backdrop development potential remedy proffered imaginative approach prosecution engineer, fail act prevent, mass starvation. yemen described "war world forgot" eclipsed syria complicated saudi -led coalition supported united states , united kingdom france . resulting humanitarian disaster features famine cataclysmic proportions . word "famine" evokes images dusty pot-bellied children wrath nature. however, reality less nature's cruelty mans: "starvation" often accurately reflects wholly human-made preventable catastrophes, failed diplomacy ostensible military objectives collide. read more: saudi arabia's war yemen 'a strategic failure' perhaps viewed collateral conflict, political military actors could easily predicted crisis taken preventative measures avoid. yemen almost entirely dependent upon imports staple commodities. prior conflict, approximately 80-90 percent food imported, principally red sea port al-hudaida, quickly became epicentre fighting. eventually, coalition forces imposed un security council-approved blockade port march 2015. prosecuting famine war crime faces distinct sometimes significant obstacles. blockade contains exemption food, little done ensure continued functioning port. example, port aerially bombed reports houthi rebels destroyed key infrastructure port causing delays importation food foreseeable fatal consequences. addition, food humanitarian supplies reportedly encounter laborious inspection procedures and, cases, reportedly withheld destroyed. blockade attacks port contributing to, causing, famine yemen. 17 million food-insecure (defined inconsistent access adequate food supplies), 6.8 million facing famine conditions. put another way, people facing famine present population kuwait . justice demands variety legal avenues pursued hold responsible famine accountable. prohibition starvation method warfare criminalised customary international law governing conflict, geneva conventions, rome statute. despite legal facilities available, two known prosecutions- domestic conducted absentia - entered convictions starvation war crime crime humanity: first croatia second ethiopia . given frequency famine occurs consequence conflict, taking passive approach famine respect state's duty mount effective prosecutions serious violations international humanitarian law. opinion: nobody win war yemen video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5594191248001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5594191248001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: committed war crimes yemen? (25:00) several steps already taken considering accountability yemen. example, yemen's exiled president hadi established national commission inquiry september 2015 mandated investigate alleged violations international human rights humanitarian law. however, failed obtain support concerned parties unable operate parts yemen. august 2017, open letter sent un human rights council 62 signatories non-governmental organisations around world, calling creation independent body look violations international human rights humanitarian laws yemen. prosecuting famine war crime faces distinct sometimes significant obstacles. first, blockades cause starvation prohibited long purpose achieve, proportionate to, military objective. second, causal link action outcome may clear enough establish beyond reasonable doubt remote military political actors responsible. read more: 'women like us': women war yemen yemen faces obstacles. first, blockade purportedly pursuant legitimate military objective prohibiting illegal supply arms rebel groups like houthis. second, evidentiary problems establishing individual criminal responsibility country always depended, almost entirely, food imports historically endured food insecurity issues complex. notwithstanding, amongst three famine affected countries, yemen may offer clearest set facts amount crimes pursue accountability. un special rapporteur urged blockade lifted order prevent starvation. view, blockade one main causes humanitarian catastrophe. difficult avoid conclusion control food importation yemen used either intentionally negligently, weapon war, seemingly sides. responsible held accountable primary perpetrators of, accessories to, starvation. catriona murdoch consultant global rights compliance member 1 crown office row chambers england. catriona practices international humanitarian criminal law. wayne jordash qc managing partner global rights compliance llp human rights humanitarian advisory law company specializing reform national systems accountability ensure complementarity international standards. views expressed article authors' necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. authors catriona murdoch catriona murdoch consultant global rights compliance member 1 crown office row chambers england. wayne jordash wayne jordash qc managing partner global rights compliance llp. yemen famine war & conflict middle east
international aid groups criticised south sudan's decision sharply increase foreign worker visa fees, warning would aggravate humanitarian crisis famine-hit country. south sudan's government recently announced would charge $10,000 foreigners working "professional" capacity, $2,000 "blue collar" employees $1,000 "casual workers" march 1. "the government army largely contributed humanitarian situation. now, want create profit crisis created," elizabeth deng, south sudan researcher amnesty international , said saturday. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5338243172001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5338243172001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: thousands desperate need aid south sudan (2:07) pageloadedsuccessfully said hundreds aid workers operating country, new visa costs "could hinder critical work ground". south sudan , formed 2011 following split north, declared famine two counties late february. united nations said saturday 7.5 million people need assistance country. crisis "man-made" origins, according un humanitarian organisations groups, civil war started 2013 forced people flee, disrupted agriculture, sent prices soaring cut aid agencies worst-hit areas. humanitarian groups also say workers subject harassment attacks. read more: dying hunger - famine? julien schopp, director humanitarian practice interaction, groups 180 ngos working worldwide, said fee rise measure put practice, "it impossible humanitarian workers pay kind sum". schopp said ngos still pressing government provide details, notably whether workers current work permits would re-apply new ones new fee structure. michael makuei, south sudan's information minister, said thursday new fees foreign workers already effect confirmed applied aid workers. un defines famine situation least fifth households region face extreme food shortages, acute malnutrition rates exceed 30 percent, two people every 10,000 dying day. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351916554001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5351916554001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: what's causing famine africa? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully source: news agencies africa south sudan famine
renderpagesvideo('5374149035001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); six aid workers killed ambush famine-hit south sudan , united nations said sunday, without specifying organisation worked for. victims attacked saturday travelled capital, juba, eastern town pibor, according un office coordination humanitarian affairs (ocha). "i appalled outraged heinous murder six courageous humanitarians south sudan," eugene owusu, un humanitarian coordinator south sudan, said statement. "at time humanitarian needs reached unprecedented levels, entirely unacceptable trying help attacked killed," owusu added. read more: south sudan famine - eating water lilies survive according ocha, highest number humanitarian workers killed one incident since start civil war three years ago. saturday's ambush followed two attacks aid workers month, shortly south sudan declared famine last month two counties unity state, saying 100,000 people face starvation another million brink famine. gaining independence sudan 2011, world's youngest nation descended war december 2013 president salva kiir accused rival former deputy riek machar plotting coup. tens thousands since died 3.5 million people displaced, surge fighting since july devastated food production areas stable farmers. least 79 humanitarians killed south sudan since conflict began, including least 12 killed year, ocha said. "these attacks aid workers aid assets utterly reprehensible," owusu said. "they put lives aid workers risk, also threaten lives thousands south sudanese rely assistance survival." earlier month, government announced plans charge levy $10,000 foreign aid worker, along danger abduction could hurt efforts help hungry. thursday, un secretary-general antonio guterres accused south sudan's government ignoring plight tens thousands people suffering famine, 7.5 million need humanitarian aid thousands fleeing fighting. "there strong consensus south sudanese leaders need demonstrate commitment wellbeing country's people, among poorest world," guterres said un security council briefing. interactive: mapping six months hunger horn africa video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5331232934001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5331232934001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: who's blame famine south sudan? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully joseph moum malok, south sudan's deputy un ambassador, said government "takes issue accusation", adding parts country affected drought. also said government "will spare efforts help address situation calls upon international community help address urgent matter". confidential un report, seen afp reuters news agencies earlier month, found famine largely caused juba's military operations. "the bulk evidence suggests famine unity state resulted protracted conflict and, particular, cumulative toll repeated military operations undertaken government southern unity beginning 2014," report said. also said government spending oil revenue weapons, even country descends famine. government rejected report's allegations. source: al jazeera news agencies africa south sudan famine humanitarian crises
british foreign secretary boris johnson made surprise visit somalia worsening drought threatens millions people starvation horn africa nation. johnson met president mohamed abdullahi mohamed wednesday villa somalia presidential palace central mogadishu. "it so, shame facing problems facing, particularly course drought risk starvation, though think moving fast try tackle that," johnson told mohamed. somalia recently declared drought national disaster amid warnings full-blown famine. least 360,000 somali children severely malnourished, meaning die within weeks unless receive food aid. country faced similar crisis 2011 killed nearly 260,000 people. johnson said united kingdom would host conference somalia may 11 help address "underlying problems" armed attacks corruption. watch: done save millions facing famine? mohamed, also known farmajo, blamed drought part armed group al-shabab, continues control parts country. "this drought really serious, far lost 60 percent livestock," president said. statement somali president's office said britain would give $134m drought parts somalia. national disaster video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351231681001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5351231681001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > un raises alarm somalia crisis pageloadedsuccessfully current drought, united nations says threatens half somalia's population, six million people, part four-nation humanitarian crisis un called largest past 70 years. stephen o'brien, un humanitarian chief, said recent visit somalia 2.9 million people required immediate help "to save sustain lives". said close one million children age five would acutely malnourished year. "the window short still avert famine," nigel tricks, oxfam's horn africa regional director, said wednesday. drought also affects millions people parts ethiopia kenya, government recently declared national disaster half counties. famine declared two counties civil war-torn south sudan. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351916554001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5351916554001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story - what's causing famine africa? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully source: news agencies africa somalia famine united kingdom
move said aimed reducing number humanitarian workers [isaac billy/epa] war-ravaged south sudan hiked work permit fees 100-fold foreign aid workers $10,000, officials said, despite suffering famine. world's youngest nation mired civil war since 2013, president salva kiir fired deputy riek machar, sparking conflict increasingly split country along ethnic lines. last month, united nations declared parts country experiencing famine, first time world faced catastrophe six years. nearly half population - 5.5 million people - expected lack reliable source food july. read more: dying hunger: famine? despite catastrophe, juba charge $10,000 foreigners working "professional" capacity, $2,000 "blue collar" employees $1,000 "casual workers" march 1, labour ministry said decree. edmund yakani, executive director local charity community empowerment progress organizations (cepo), said move aimed reduce number humanitarian workers. "actually, work permit expensive humanitarian workers, since 90 percent foreigners seeking work south sudan humanitarian workers", told reuters news agency. aid groups say often face restrictions south sudan. december, juba expelled country director norwegian refugee council (nrc) security agents held without charge 24 hours. un defines famine situation least fifth households region face extreme food shortages, acute malnutrition rates exceed 30 percent, two people every 10,000 dying day. fighting uprooted 3 million people. continuing displacement presents "heightened risks prolonged (food) underproduction 2018," un said report last month. source: reuters news agency africa south sudan famine
acutely malnourished sacdiyo mohamed, nine-months-old, treated hospital mogadishu month [mohamed sheikh nor/ap] somalia's president said thursday almost half country's people facing acute food shortages 15 percent facing famine. urged world help. mohamed abdullahi mohamed told un security council video link mogadishu somalis proud resilient would last ask help, drought spawned humanitarian crisis. "we cannot forget last time somalia blighted starvation, 2011, fewer 260,000 people died," mohamed said. "the crisis also risks undermining hard-won political security progress made." yemen somalia 'months away' famine united nations said wednesday $864m un humanitarian appeal somalia 31 percent funded. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5366482009001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5366482009001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > un: millions verge famine somalia pageloadedsuccessfully country facing third famine 25 years six million people - half population - need help. mohamed's inauguration president february key step towards establishing somalia's first fully functioning central government quarter-century. somalia began fall apart 1991 warlords ousted dictator siad barre, turned other. years conflict attacks al-shabab group, along famine, shattered horn africa country 12 million people. michael keating, un envoy somalia, told council country "is experiencing moment tragedy hope" - tragedy threat famine hope recent electoral process "has created momentum fresh political engagement among somalis". week's announcement cabinet six women latest step forward, said. keating said nearly three million somalis, mainly women children, "require immediate life-saving support," compared 2011, "the scope responding crisis greater". famine 'largest humanitarian crisis history un' president mohamed, recently declared drought national disaster, said "truly saddened" people walking kilometres search food water, many fled urban centres search support, "which government desperately trying provide assistance international community". "many people's livelihood, especially livestock, perished," said. mohamed said humanitarian response "challenging" places insecurity caused al-shabab. said group "has weakened substantially" military action undertaken somali african union forces, "we determined defeat al-shabab". president asked un security council help rebuild national army take security, called members work plan lift arms embargo country. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351916554001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5351916554001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > what's causing famine africa? – inside story pageloadedsuccessfully source: ap news agency somalia famine africa al-shabab
government south sudan spending oil revenue weapons, even country descends famine largely caused juba's military operations, according confidential united nations report. report panel experts, whose findings dismissed south sudan's government , calls arms embargo country - measure rejected security council vote december. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5357335369001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5357335369001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: south sudan violence, hunger forcing families flee (2:08) "weapons continue flow south sudan diverse sources, often coordination neighbouring countries," said 48-page report, seen afp reuters news agencies friday. experts found "preponderance evidence (that) shows continued procurement weapons leadership juba" army, security services, militias "associated forces". south sudan derives 97 percent budget revenue oil sales. late march late october 2016, oil revenues totalled $243m, according calculations panel. least half, "and likely substantially more", country's budget expenditures devoted security including arms purchases, report said. interactive: mapping six months hunger horn africa government president salva kiir continued make arms deals famine declared parts unity state, least 100,000 people dying starvation, experts said. "the bulk evidence suggests famine unity state resulted protracted conflict and, particular, cumulative toll repeated military operations undertaken government southern unity beginning 2014," said report. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5331232934001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5331232934001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: who's blame famine south sudan? (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully later friday, south sudan's government rejected allegations report. "we bought arms last two three years," government spokesman michael makuei lueth told reporters cabinet meeting. "we rights buy arms self-protection self-defence ... idea un saying government south sudan doesn't care people fan buying arms time correct," said. annual report sanctions monitors 15-member security council comes advance ministerial meeting body south sudan next thursday, due chaired british foreign secretary boris johnson. december, security council failed adopt us-drafted resolution impose arms embargo sanctions south sudan despite warnings un officials possible genocide . read more: south sudan famine - eating water lilies survive south sudanese government known blocking access humanitarian aid workers, compounding food crisis, significant population displacement also contributing famine. gaining independence sudan 2011, south sudan descended war december 2013, leaving tens thousands dead 3.5 million people displaced. surge fighting since july devastated food production areas stable farmers, equatorial region, considered country's breadbasket. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5351916554001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5351916554001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: what's causing famine africa? (25:01) pageloadedsuccessfully source: news agencies famine south sudan un salva kiir africa
1.8 million nigerians facing severe food insecurity, according un [epa] world little three months save millions people famine yemen somalia, international committee red cross said wednesday. medical charity needs $300m bring emergency assistance total five million people yemen, somalia northeast nigeria, well areas south sudan famine already declared. funds ensure five million 20 million people risk famine starvation receive immediate essential aid, said red cross director operations dominik stillhart. "food, water, shelter, healthcare required immediately," said. "we ground delivering aid four countries. witness massive suffering. millions people denied basics survive." opinion: ending famine somalia, turkish way earlier month, united nations announced 20 million people facing famine four countries, needs raise $4.4bn funds july. south sudan, un said 3.4 million need help displaced fighting government forces armed groups loyal former vice president riek machar. several districts south sudan already facing famine, stillhart said yemen somalia three-to-four-month "window" sets there. 300,000 people, meanwhile, face acute malnutrition northeast nigeria. un food organisations define famine 30 percent children age five suffer acute malnutrition mortality rates two deaths per 10,000 people day, among criteria. stillhart said aside addressing immediate threat starvation, international community must also tackle "the root causes crisis". result conflict, estimated seven million people facing famine yemen [epa] source: al jazeera news agencies africa famine
cargo ship unloads sugar yemen [abduljabbar zeyad/reuters] saudi-led coalition's easing blockade famine-threatened yemen "a step right direction" go far enough, european union united nations said. coalition shut yemen's borders monday response missile attack houthi rebels intercepted near riyadh airport. wednesday, reopened southern port aden, controlled coalition-backed government forces, wadea crossing saudi-yemeni border reopened next day. eu's commissioner humanitarian aid crisis management, christos stylianides, said saturday steps needed. "initial measures resume operations aden port open wadea border crossing step right direction," said. "the eu urges coalition ensure immediate resumption un's flights activities ports hodeida saleef opening land borders humanitarian relief basic commercial commodities. "the delivery life-saving supplies critical yemeni population must facilitated parties conflict," stylianides added. friday, un office coordination humanitarian aid, ocha, said coalition still blocking desperately needed un aid deliveries yemen, despite reopening aden wadea. "humanitarian movements yemen remain blocked," said ocha spokesman russell geekie. "the reopening port aden enough. need see blockade ports lifted, especially hodeida, humanitarian commercial imports." 'famine' un aid chief mark lowcock told security council week unless blockade lifted, yemen face "the largest famine world seen many decades, millions victims". stylianides echoed lowcock's concerns. yemen "is suffering world's worst humanitarian crisis, two-thirds population need humanitarian assistance", said statement. "the eu shares concerns expressed by... lowcock calls full unrestrained access restored immediately, avoid yemen suffering largest famine decades," stylianides said. geekie said aid gone aden yet reopening wadea crossing affect un operations. transport minister yemen's internationally recognised government, murad al-halimi, said two airports aden loyalist-held southern city seiyun would reopen sunday. yemeni media quoted saying national carrier, yemenia, would resume flights two airports destinations including amman cairo. sea port hodeida, rebel-held territory, key un aid efforts closest majority people need. coalition accuses rebels using aid shipments smuggle weapons. blockade, un aid agencies delivering food medicine hodeida, saleef aden ports. "there alternative ports fully functional receiving commercial humanitarian cargo," geekie said. un listed yemen world's number one humanitarian crisis, 17 million people need food, seven million risk famine. 2,000 yemenis died cholera outbreak affecting nearly one million people. saudi arabia allies intervened neighbouring yemen march 2015 push back iran-backed houthi rebels control capital, sanaa, restore government president abd-rabbu mansour hadi power. source: afp news agency war & conflict famine yemen saudi arabia middle east
renderpagesvideo('5349821093001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); mogadishu - world health organization says two months left prevent somalia's third famine 25 years. last famine, six years ago, killed 250,000 people. cases diarrhoea, cholera measles already spreading fast severe drought. africa health somalia famine world health organisation
renderpagesvideo('5451836114001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); muslims worldwide celebrate ramadan special meals tasty treats, millions yemenis suffering acute lack food country's two-year war rages on. according aid agencies, 17 million people enough eat, un calls "largest humanitarian crisis world". typically, people shop throughout ramadan, yemeni storekeepers nothing celebrate. "sales lowest years past. every year worse before," yahya hubar, shopkeeper hodeidah, coastal city western yemen, told al jazeera. two million children acutely malnourished yemen, child five dies every 10 minutes preventable diseases, according report unicef published december. read more: cry help - millions facing famine yemen addition, country facing cholera outbreak, far infected 29,000 people. many scrambling get hands food necessities, longer people talking special foods prepared enjoyed festive ramadan month. "our situation hard. haven't paid several months. essential needs hard get prices high. we're looking goods can't buy," nabil ibrahim, another hodeidah resident, told al jazeera. 'unprecedented tragedy' third ramadan yemen faces state war. majority population limited access food medicine. un needs $2.1bn provide aid yemen. far, half amount raised help address calls "tragedy unprecedented proportion". "people hodeidah living tragic situation. ramadan arrives people suffering greatly unpaid salaries, electricity, water hot weather blockade due ongoing war yemen," sadeq al saeedi, charity worker, told al jazeera. aid agencies say 17 million people enough eat [al jazeera] yemen already one poorest countries region. ongoing conflict houthi fighters arab coalition claimed lives 10,000 people pushed country brink famine , according un. also taken toll country's health facilities. number hospitals clinics bombed, others close doors fighting. earlier month, state emergency declared yemen's opposition-held capital, sanaa, cholera outbreak killed scores people. source: al jazeera news middle east yemen famine war & conflict ramadan 2017
us envoy nikki haley accused un 'bullying' israel [file: epa] nikki haley, us envoy united nations, made headlines june denounced claimed pattern "anti-israel" behaviour un. "i never taken kindly bullies, un bullied israel long time," said. "we going let happen more. new day israel united nations." haley's words music israeli leaders' ears echoed long-standing talking points pro-israel advocacy groups, analysts say little substance allegations that, words israeli president reuven rivlin, israel "the un's punching bag". according human rights lawyer noura erakat, attention given israel/palestine un harkens back particular historical moment 1960s 1970s, "national liberation movements newly decolonised countries used un site protest" "imperialistic" western politics. issues concerning namibia , south africa, cape verde, vietnam , laos others one way another resolved, erakat told al jazeera, "the one hasn't palestine". read more: un chief - 'no alternative' palestine-israel solution 2016, un security council's activity focused likes north korea , democratic republic congo, mali, somalia libya . sudan south sudan produced security council resolutions last year, 11, one resolution dealt israel occupied palestinian territories. first almost eight years. different story, however, elsewhere within un , israel faces frequent condemnation actions bodies un human rights council general assembly. "undoubtedly, unhrc general assembly devote disproportionate attention israel/palestine," south african international law professor john dugard, un's former special rapporteur human rights occupied palestinian territories, told al jazeera. "but must viewed context un political organs whole," dugard added. "the security council quartet middle east [un, european union, united states russia] notoriously pro-israel refuse pay adequate attention palestinian issues." un's top official israeli-palestinian conflict united nations special coordinator middle east peace process, office "represents secretary-general leads un system political diplomatic efforts related peace process". post comes authority secretary-general, well department political affairs (dpa), headed us diplomat jeffrey feltman. read more: israel holds anti-bds summit united nations time special rapporteur, dugard told al jazeera senior officials dpa "made attempt conceal pro-israel feelings me". believes attention paid "bias" security council, quartet secretariat. 2007, then-outgoing special coordinator alvaro de soto said leaked "end mission report" us israeli pressure compromising ability quartet, un, act even-handedly middle east negotiations. current un envoy, nickolay mladenov, unlikely make complaints; made secret admiration israel " strong democratic country ", bulgarian foreign minister 2010, mladenov visited region "made extremely friendly public comments israel time comments foreign ministers around world [were] anything norm", according report jerusalem post. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5088161602001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5088161602001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: un - israeli demolitions displace 1,000 (2:40) pageloadedsuccessfully recent months seen uptick anti-un hostility israeli officials. march, un official rima khalaf resigned post executive secretary un economic social commission western asia (escwa) secretary-general's office forced withdrawal escwa-commissioned report israeli apartheid. subsequent escwa report effect israeli occupation denounced israel's ambassador un "blood libel". june, israeli media reported foreign affairs ministry demanding un terminate contract senior humanitarian coordinator robert piper, threat revoking visa. piper deemed overstepped describing 50-year occupation west bank gaza strip "ugly". month, netanyahu called dismantling unrwa, un refugee agency. attacks led question haley's claims israel victim bullying, rather bully. 2015, israeli officials reportedly threatened un staff successful attempt prevent israeli army listed serious violator children's rights. dugard's successors also faced detention denial entry . noting us protected israel security council veto (or threat veto), western diplomatic source told al jazeera "over substantive reports initiatives critical israel, us israel always exert high-level political pressure office secretary-general usually buckles", leading "to serious credibility gap un". haley, netanyahu others make accusation everyone singling israel, erakat said, "in fact, exception made reverse direction - palestine singled similar treatment colonies peoples living foreign domination subjugation. palestine, like sites settler-colonialism, remains exception world order." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5457873462001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5457873462001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > upfront: palestine israel - one state, two? (25:15) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera author ben white ben white freelance journalist, writer activist, specialising palestine/israel. un palestine israel middle east
un peacekeepers sent war-ravaged countries earth, ostensibly help transition peace. stand accused committing crimes people supposed protect. according recent investigation associated press (ap), 2004 2016, united nations received almost 2,000 allegations sexual exploitation abuse peacekeepers. un says zero tolerance policy sexual exploitation abuse, survivors, activists, lawyers human rights organisations say crimes allowed continue impunity. conversations un peacekeepers officials, gender experts, academics, researchers activists, well investigation un data, four-part series, try navigate competing accounts answer question: peacekeepers become predators? part three, ask presence peacekeeping community sometimes host nation harm good. read part i: w hy peacekeepers rape? read part ii: un sending wrong people keep peace? inside 'peaceland' 2015 book, peaceland, severine autesserre, professor political science barnard college columbia university us, writes "community interveners peace either primary objective (like peacekeepers) part broader set goals (such diplomats development workers)" often exist parallel world people meant serve. argues way community lives, talks collaborates locals reinforces "a pervasive power disparity interveners intended beneficiaries". "peacekeeping economy" - millions dollars arrive, circulate external actors rarely reach benefit local community - emboldens sense impunity superiority among community interveners, says marsha henry, associate professor london school economics' gender institute uk , pointing peacekeepers aid community often live privileged, precarious, lives economy caters needs development goals country in. "you immunity privilege, fly business class, privileges never before, quickly people begin internalise idea world 'us' 'them'," explains paula donovan, aids free world, us-based ngo exposes injustice, abuse inequality. kelly-jo bluen, former project leader international justice institute justice reconciliation south africa, argues peacekeepers often parachute little regard local population notion saviours. "the focus becomes one violence 'out there' opposed economies violence acts sexual violence fostered perpetrated peacekeepers," explains. interaction local population often discouraged. henry argues more, less, it. interaction happen, often form peacekeepers parading armoured vehicles blue helmets, something says furthers "dehumanisation host population". one peacekeeper central african republic , want give name authorised talk media , told al jazeera, battalion instructed talk engage local population. "it creates possibilities wrong things happen … next thing know, accused something," says. peacekeeping prostitution one particular economy fed presence peacekeepers. international organization journal article peacekeeping, compliance international norms, transactional sex monrovia, published late 2016, researchers found 50 percent women surveyed liberian capital, monrovia, engaged transactional sex. "a large majority - 75 percent - un peacekeeping," report found. widely touted first quantitative study association un peacekeeping operation transactional sex, report stated: "transactional sex un personnel ubiquitous life experience among young women monrovia." "the actions un peacekeepers undermining un's broader peace-building goals liberia," continued. "when unmil (un mission liberia) withdraws, leave behind distorted economy half monrovia's young women making livelihoods selling sex." [illustration jawahir al-naimi/ al jazeera ] several international aid agencies raised alarm abusive behaviour un peacekeepers cambodia 1991 1993, including visiting brothels prostitutes underage, yasushi akashi, head un mission cambodia (untac), responded, "boys boys". reflecting akashi's comments, sandra whitworth, professor political science york university toronto, canada author men, militarism un peacekeeping: gendered analysis, writes bringing peace cambodia "was accompanied [by] deployment soldiers assumed prerogatives militarised men included access prostitutes, well freedom pursue, harass, assault local women". constitutes exploitation abuse ? un discourages sexual relations peacekeepers local community, arguing fosters unequal relations. peacekeepers fired repatriated breaking un code engaging sexual relations, including paying sex (defined exploitation un) member local community, escape prosecution un rules abuse (such rape), prostitution illegal country. [but] prostitution, term sex work, rarely, ever, first choice hungry and/or families support. almost always last resort peacekeepers must reflect positions power privilege. gill mathurin , aids free world un decide whether peacekeeper's behaviour deemed exploitation abuse . olivier salgado, spokesperson un department peacekeeping operations, explains distinction two. "sexual exploitation incorporates inherently unequal power dynamic. sexual abuse physical act committed whether force unequal coercive conditions. sexual exploitation sexual abuse, however, violate fundamental values united nations standards conduct." "it also important note," adds, "that instances, sexual exploitation may lead sexual abuse should, therefore, given utmost attention." 'consensual' sex unequal power dynamics 2003, un secretary-general kofi annan introduced zero tolerance policy sexual abuse exploitation, also "discouraged" peacekeepers engaging sexual relations beneficiaries assistance "since based inherently unequal power dynamics, [and] undermine credibility integrity work united nations". academics researchers disagree effectiveness approach. pressure peacekeepers remain celibate long missions "unreasonable", says henry. "many don't see paying someone sex major infraction … cover up, know un doesn't like it," adds. paul higate, lecturer school sociology, politics international studies university bristol uk, agrees counterproductive regulate prohibit sexual relations consenting adults. gill mathurin, communications director aids free world, hand, argues "not possible consensual sex un peacekeepers people sent serve". higate believes needs greater clarity sexual relations understood context power dynamics peacekeepers host population. "the situation adults involved survival prostitution equated rape child," says. "[but] prostitution, term sex work, rarely, ever, first choice hungry and/or families support. almost always last resort peacekeepers must reflect positions power privilege." bunia, democratic republic congo helen wembe* home village bunia, eastern democratic republic congo , peacekeeper came door. wembe, 13 years old time, explained grandmother wasn't home gone funeral. peacekeeper entered. "he raped me. brothers sisters house time," says. 2004, year international media reported peacekeepers exchanging eggs, bananas, peanut butter sex women children wembe's village. women involved said hungry, homeless needed items babies households. hundreds children subsequently born bunia. un introduced dna testing determine paternity so-called " peacekeeper babies ". source: united nations *name changed protect identity currently 22,016 peacekeepers drc. since 2015, 47 allegations sexual exploitation abuse drc. include 83 peacekeepers 65 survivors. date, five accused jailed. follow azad essa twitter: @azadessa source: al jazeera author azad essa azad essa journalist al jazeera, covering sub-saharan africa. human rights africa un
un peacekeepers sent war-ravaged countries earth, ostensibly help transition peace. stand accused committing crimes people supposed protect. according recent investigation associated press, 2004 2016, united nations received almost 2,000 allegations sexual exploitation abuse peacekeepers. un says zero tolerance policy sexual exploitation abuse, survivors, activists, lawyers human rights organisations say crimes allowed continue impunity. conversations un peacekeepers officials, gender experts, academics, researchers activists, well investigation un data, try navigate competing accounts answer question: peacekeepers become predators? history immunity? when, end world war ii , un conceived peacekeepers made immune prosecution host state alleged crimes committed mission. considered necessary stop others sabotaging efforts assist post-conflict environments. instead, would held accountable government judicial system. decades later, however, became apparent peacekeepers abusing privileged position. envisioned immunity would become problematic fiona tate, queen mary university according fiona tate, phd candidate studying law queen mary university london uk , part problem much deeper roots. un first started deploying peacekeepers 1948, didn't consider rights women children militarised environments peacekeepers would operating. "as result exclusion, crimes committed [women] would go largely unrecorded," explains tate. early 1990s, crimes started come international attention. since reports rape democratic republic congo , eriteria, mozambique, somalia , prostitution trafficking bosnia liberia abuse minors sierra leone . 1992, department peacekeeping operations set up. 1994, un appointed graca machel, former first lady mozambique , investigate effects armed conflict children. landmark report, released august 1996, one first raise issue sexual exploitation children peacekeepers call end impunity perpetrators. 2001, discovered aid workers un peacekeepers sexually abused refugees guinea , liberia sierra leone. 2003, un secretary-general kofi annan introduced zero tolerance policy sexual abuse exploitation well special mechanism reporting it. also "discouraged" peacekeepers engaging sexual relations beneficiaries assistance "since based inherently unequal power dynamics, [and] undermine credibility integrity work united nations". letter un security council, annan wrote: "we cannot tolerate even one instance un peacekeeper victimising vulnerable among us." part ii: un sending wrong people keep peace? abuse didn't end. "often [accused] peacekeepers moved mission, deployed elsewhere sent home," explains paul higate, lecturer school sociology, politics international studies university bristol uk. ap's investigation revealed accusations levelled un peacekeepers led prosecutions member states. peacekeepers end court, often reduced charges. "it envisioned immunity would become problematic," says tate. 'worst kept secret'? 1999, american hired un police investigator british subsidiary american security firm dyncorp international fired. name kathryn bolkovac and, following reports sexual abuse forced prostitution implicated un personnel bosnia , tasked investigating alleged crimes. submitted report superiors detailing sex trafficking ring among un police officers, including ukrainians, pakistanis, romanians, germans americans working conjunction local criminal gangs, fired. bolkovac became campaigner women's rights conflict zones. "i spoken issue past 15 years … little progress," says. bolkovac believes un fraught misreporting, concealment lack accountability. describes sexual abuse peacekeepers organisation's "worst kept secret". "the un never promptly report allegations troop-contributing countries avoid publicity give time cover up," bolkovac says. part iii: un peacekeepers harm good? ismini palla, deputy chief public affairs un departments peacekeeping field support, disputes bolkovac's view. "the un notifies concerned member state every allegation sexual exploitation abuse within days receipt allegation makes information concurrently publicly available conduct discipline unit website ," explains. "the secretary-general also requested member states finalise investigations within six-month timeframe." palla says improvements response member states accusations sexual exploitation abuse. "in 2012, average time appoint national investigation officer two half months 2016 eight days. similarly, 2012, national investigation would last 266 days 2015 duration dropped 185 days (six months)." happens 'the secret' exposed? illustrate point, bolkovac refers case anders kompass, man widely credited exposing allegations sexual abuse around 16 troops - 11 france , three chad two equatorial guinea - central african republic 2015. although french troops peacekeepers, sent un security council assist restoring peace stability following coup march 2013. peacekeepers chad equatorial guinea part african union . kompass, former director field operations un human rights office geneva, submitted report superiors detailing abuses allegedly carried french troops car. un failed act upon report , kompass leaked french authorities july 2014. documented allegations sexual abuse 13 minors, including sodomy boys ages nine 13. [ illustration jawahir al-naimi/ al jazeera ] march 2015, kompass denounced un violating protocol sharing report placed internal investigation. exonerated nine months later, subsequently resigned . told irin news refused work organisation lacked accountability. independent panel appointed investigate secretary general ban ki-moon described un's handling allegations sexual abuse exploitation "gross institutional failure". independent panel's report noted lack respect, dignity protection afforded survivors found babacar gaye, head un mission central african republic , neither acted allegations made attempt ensure child survivors received medical attention humanitarian aid. "the welfare survivors accountability perpetrators appeared afterthought, considered all," report stated. august 2015, gaye forced resign. data, testimony even stories written world. end, french prosecutors dropped cases lydie koundja, lawyer bangui french prosecutors eventually dropped case six french troops january 2017 lack evidence. lydie koundja, lawyer chairperson association des femmes juristes de centrafrique, organisation assists represents survivors sexual abuse central african republic, says organisation applied high court bangui case french peacekeepers reopened. she's aware it's long shot. "we evidence, testimony. see judge says," koundja explains. "there data, testimony even stories written world. end, french prosecutors dropped cases," says. 'no transparency' experts say un's processes almost certainly shield accused. carla ferstman, author 2013 report united states institute peace called criminalising sexual exploitation abuse peacekeepers, says "no transparency level investigations [by un governments accused peacekeepers]". beatrice lindstrom, lawyer institute justice democracy haiti, new york-based ngo helps survivors human rights violations pursue cases national international courts, describes un investigations system "incredibly opaque". "when comes un, justice extremely rare," adds. "the un's gut reaction always cover up, handle in-house, make problem go away," lindstrom says. "yes, course, rape happens everywhere, system type legal protection crimes. people sent protect others, all." stephane dujarric, spokesperson un secretary general, disagrees, saying: "i don't think anyone trying bury cases trying make go away." spokesperson un's peacekeeping operations, olivier salgado, describes fight sexual exploitation abuse "a top priority secretary general entire leadership organisation". "fighting sexual exploitation abuse system-wide uphill battle let anyone cover crimes un flag," salgado tells al jazeera. bambari, central african republic late 2015, eunice danpena* heard knock door hut displacement camp bambari, town ouaka prefecture central african republic. un peacekeeper. told busy. let raped her. "he forced stronger choice," says. source: hrw *name changed protect identity currently 12,870 peacekeepers central african republic. since 2015, 83 allegations sexual exploitation abuse country. allegations concern 177 un peacekeepers 255 survivors. date, five accused jailed. fighters peace? core, say experts, peacekeeping ambiguous contradictory notion. militaries definition demand type behaviour "premised violence aggression, individual conformity military discipline," writes sandra whitworth, professor political science york university toronto, canada author men, militarism, un peacekeeping: gendered analysis. but, say higate marsha henry, deputy director centre women, peace security london school economics, peacekeeping operations require different set values emotions, impartiality empathy - "attributes may discouraged traditional military training". 2000, un security council resolution 1325 recognised armed conflict affected women men different ways. resolution means practice unclear. nina wilen, deputy editor journal international peacekeeping postdoctoral fellow based belgium , says resolution brings attention "women's role participation conflict peace processes", also "paints essentialist picture women conflict peace processes 'inherently peaceful' 'fragile'". [illustration jawahir al-naimi/ al jazeera ] kelly-jo bluen, former project leader international justice institute justice reconciliation johannesburg, south africa , believes emphasis rape weapon war complicates approaches carried aren't explicitly military role. type project needs diversity … go patrol, clear need women patrol, women vulnerable encourages come shell. evelyn kugblenu, minusca bluen says un security council's women, peace security agenda frameworks view peacekeepers part solution sexual violence, opposed complicit it. "we stop viewing peacekeeper sexual violence ideationally distinct forms sexual violence," says. "we operate good bad binaries. see rape ... perpetrated monsters. result, system able accommodate acts violence doesn't fit moral universe. fixation perfect victim perfect perpetrator. means perpetrator fit idea 'evil warlord', simply doesn't suit narrative." "sexual violence happens multiplicity ways," bluen argues. "and … recognise patriarchy global phenomenon, think international organisations would exempt?" asks. symptom racism sexual violence also symptom racism feelings superiority towards local community often inbuilt peacekeeping industry, henry believes. cases sexual exploitation abuse peacekeepers missions democratic republic congo , central african republic, haiti , liberia, south sudan ivory coast un missions combined. henry says fact many severely affected places former french colonies speaks way colonial past influenced contemporary forms sexual violence. "there always element racism, gender class play contexts. peacekeeping spaces neutral sites," explains. aditya mehta, communications officer un department peacekeeping operations, explains responsibility troop police-contributing countries screen nominate serve peacekeeping missions. "the un requests member states certify conducted screening disciplinary/criminal records human rights violations, including sexual exploitation abuse," explains, adding: "in april 2016, secretariat begun vetting individuals deployed members military contingents formed police units prior misconduct ... service united nations. marks considerable expansion previously established vetting practices ..." female peacekeepers? one recurring issues raised experts un personnel low number women involved peacekeeping operations. according mehta: "women deployed police, military civilian[s] made positive impact peacekeeping environments, supporting role women building peace [in] protecting women's rights." says approximately 105,000 peacekeepers deployed, roughly 3,700 military personnel 1,200 police women. mehta explains increase made possible due advocacy efforts un. "the un police division continuing global effort recruit female police officers national police services un police operations around world," says. "similarly, office military affairs engaging troop-contributing countries encourage advocate deployment women uniformed functions." "however," mehta adds, "the responsibility deployment women police military lies member states." evelyn kugblenu, gender officer un police minusca, un mission central african republic (car), says 44 women mission. "this type project needs diversity … go patrol, clear need women patrol, women vulnerable encourages come shell," tells al jazeera bangui, capital car. militarised masculinity henry says increasing number women patrol won't change operational hierarchy dominated men. laskhmi puri, deputy executive director un women, told al jazeera may 2016 un women conducted "gender training" troops deployed attempt make "gender-sensitive". henry says expectation training turn peacekeepers "gender-aware individuals" naive. training evolved, says, isn't solution. bluen candid criticism. says pinning "better behaviour" "training" "sensitisation" irresponsible almost certainly coded racism. currently around 96,000 peacekeepers around world. biggest troop-contributing countries include bangladesh , ethiopia, india, rwanda pakistan. "what says barbarian troops need civilised, know countries parts globe committed crimes," explains. bolkovac agrees, arguing anyone believes issue poorly trained third world troops "is delusional". bluen balkovac believe problem one training calibre troops "militarised masculinity". "peacekeeping militarised act, military actors, militarised context, always comes patriarchy," bluen says. un's dujarric explains term "peacekeeper" applies blue-helmeted armed soldiers also unarmed police officers military observers, doctors civilians. peacekeepers, dujarric says, often go places one else wants go, areas conflict still active, mandate protect civilians. "peacekeepers often called upon adopt forward-leaning posture job, includes physical protection civilians. it's clear work done men women trained soldiers," dujarric adds. paula donovan, new york-based ngo aids free world, insists time peacekeeping idea revisited, interrogated reconsidered. "do really take soldiers, trained kill trained dehumanise killing machines, suddenly redeploy them, get play soccer; patrol streets? formula make sense day age?" asks. abobo, ivory coast 2008, 13-year-old elizabeth* pushed ground peacekeepers field close home near town abobo ivory coast. peacekeepers gang-raped left bleeding field. "they grabbed threw ground forced ... tried escape, 10 could nothing," says. july 2017, un mission ivory coast , unoci, ended mandate 13 years country. initially, 6,800 peacekeepers 2016, number dwindled around 2,800. source: bbc *name changed protect identity since 2010, 30 allegations sexual exploitation abuse country. allegations concern 31 peacekeepers 31 survivors. five accused jailed. un incomplete data allegations cases sexual exploitation abuse 2010. inside 'peaceland' 2015 book, peaceland, severine autesserre, professor political science columbia university us, writes "community interveners peace either primary objective (like peacekeepers) part broader set goals (such diplomats development workers)" often exist parallel world people meant serve. argues way community lives, talks collaborates locals reinforces "a pervasive power disparity interveners intended beneficiaries". "peacekeeping economy" - millions dollars arrive, circulate external actors rarely reach benefit local community - emboldens sense impunity superiority among community interveners, says henry, pointing peacekeepers aid community often live privileged, precarious, lives economy caters needs development goals country in. "you immunity privilege, fly business class, privileges never before, quickly people begin internalise idea world 'us' 'them'," explains donovan. bluen argues peacekeepers often parachute little regard local population notion saviours. "the focus becomes one violence 'out there' opposed economies violence acts sexual violence fostered perpetrated peacekeepers," explains. interaction local population often discouraged. henry argues more, less, it. interaction happen, often form peacekeepers parading armoured vehicles blue helmets, something says furthers "dehumanisation host population". one peacekeeper central african republic , want give name authorised talk media , told al jazeera, battalion instructed talk engage local population. "it creates possibilities wrong things happen … next thing know, accused something," says. peacekeeping prostitution one particular economy fed presence peacekeepers. international organization journal article peacekeeping, compliance international norms, transactional sex monrovia, published late 2016, researchers found 50 percent women surveyed liberian capital, monrovia, engaged transactional sex. "a large majority - 75 percent - un peacekeeping," report found. widely touted first quantitative study association un peacekeeping operation transactional sex, report stated: "transactional sex un personnel ubiquitous life experience among young women monrovia. "the actions un peacekeepers undermining un's broader peace-building goals liberia," continued. "when unmil (un mission liberia) withdraws, leave behind distorted economy half monrovia's young women making livelihoods selling sex." [illustration jawahir al-naimi/ al jazeera ] several international aid agencies raised alarm abusive behaviour un peacekeepers cambodia 1991 1993, including visiting brothels prostitutes underage, yasushi akashi, head un mission cambodia, responded, "boys boys". reflecting akashi's comments, whitworth writes bringing peace cambodia "was accompanied [by] deployment soldiers assumed prerogatives militarised men included access prostitutes, well freedom pursue, harass, assault local women". constitutes exploitation abuse ? un discourages sexual relations peacekeepers local community, arguing fosters unequal relations. peacekeepers fired repatriated breaking un code engaging sexual relations, including paying sex (defined exploitation un) member local community, escape prosecution un rules abuse (such rape), prostitution illegal country. [but] prostitution, term sex work, rarely, ever, first choice hungry and/or families support. almost always last resort peacekeepers must reflect positions power privilege. gill mathurin , aids free world un decide whether peacekeeper's behaviour deemed exploitation abuse . un's salgado explains distinction two. "sexual exploitation incorporates inherently unequal power dynamic. sexual abuse physical act committed whether force unequal coercive conditions. sexual exploitation sexual abuse, however, violate fundamental values united nations standards conduct." "it also important note," adds, "that instances, sexual exploitation may lead sexual abuse should, therefore, given utmost attention." 'consensual' sex unequal power dynamics 2003, un secretary-general kofi annan introduced zero tolerance policy sexual abuse exploitation, also "discouraged" peacekeepers engaging sexual relations beneficiaries assistance "since based inherently unequal power dynamics, [and] undermine credibility integrity work united nations". academics researchers disagree effectiveness approach. pressure peacekeepers remain celibate long missions "unreasonable", says henry. "many don't see paying someone sex major infraction … cover up, know un doesn't like it," adds. higate agrees counterproductive regulate prohibit sexual relations consenting adults. gill mathurin, communications director aids free world, hand, argues "not possible consensual sex un peacekeepers people sent serve". higate believes needs greater clarity sexual relations understood context power dynamics peacekeepers host population. "the situation adults involved survival prostitution equated rape child," says. "[but] prostitution, term sex work, rarely, ever, first choice hungry and/or families support. almost always last resort peacekeepers must reflect positions power privilege." bunia, democratic republic congo helen wembe* home village bunia, eastern democratic republic congo , peacekeeper came door. wembe, 13 years old time, explained grandmother wasn't home gone funeral. peacekeeper entered. "he raped me. brothers sisters house time," says. 2004, year international media reported peacekeepers exchanging eggs, bananas, peanut butter sex women children wembe's village. women involved said hungry, homeless needed items babies households. hundreds children subsequently born bunia. un introduced dna testing determine paternity so-called " peacekeeper babies ". source: united nations *name changed protect identity currently 22,016 peacekeepers drc. since 2015, 47 allegations sexual exploitation abuse drc. include 83 peacekeepers 65 survivors. date, five accused jailed. allegations investigated? may 2005, un security council held public meeting sexual exploitation abuse peacekeeping. first meeting kind un. council condemned "all acts sexual abuse exploitation committed peacekeepers reiterated importance ensuring properly investigated appropriately punished". 2007, un created conduct discipline unit (cdu) deal types misconduct, including sexual exploitation abuse. allegations reported cdu conduct discipline teams (cdt) field. cdt assesses allegations refers investigative arm field mission. case involves military officer, referred troop-contributing country investigation. involves civilian member un, un tasked investigating it. crucially, referral supposed activate support services, psycho-social support medical services, survivor. legal proceedings rarely instituted. partly due fact survivors access representation advise launch claim beatrice lindstrom nicola dahrendorf, chief coordinator cdt minusca, un mission central african republic , says allegation involves member military contingent, team "will inform troop-contributing state concerned within 72 hours request appointment national investigation officer within five 10 days, depending gravity allegation". atul khare, undersecretary-general un department field support, says believes un "advancing right direction" displayed "greater transparency" allegations investigated. activists, donovan aids free world, express concern that, requiring un troop-contributing countries investigate cases personnel, process fraught conflicts interest. independent body monitoring process, way knowing honest fair, donovan explains. according lawyer lindstrom, case make court survivors aren't always represented un provide legal counsel. "legal proceedings rarely instituted. partly due fact survivors access representation advise launch claim," says lindstrom. decided investigation stage, either un troop-contributing country, insufficient evidence pursue case, lindstrom says way survivors challenge decision. un's salgado disputes this, says new information presented, "we analyse re-open investigation. "our conduct discipline unit headquarters teams field put place series tools victims complainants come forth time, whether phone, email, person confidential community-based complaint mechanisms established host communities partnership local stakeholders," says. internal un report published june 2017 showed audit conduct discipline function un mission car, september 2014 october 2016, revealed mission's systems tackle sexual exploitation abuse disarray. report office internal oversight services found mission yet finalise communications strategy geared towards reaching survivors abuse exploitation yet implement reliable mechanism tracking compliance training requirements. around 57 percent military personnel attended mandatory training standards conduct, revealed. "there unmitigated risk mission personnel fully aware un standards conduct sexual exploitation abuse conduct accordingly," report stated. although salgado told al jazeera identifying mitigating factors risks misconduct "was something un missions regularly", oios report un mission car found carried risk assessments 19 37 un bases country. also found minusca viable tracking system solving long-pending cases. cases according un's data, many cases across un missions remain "pending". since 2015, 209 accusations across un peacekeeping missions. involve 346 peacekeepers, military civilian personnel, 388 survivors, including 171 children. according un data tracks status allegations per mission, 110 allegations across missions remain unresolved since 2015. one "pending" case, 19 soldiers gabon alleged raped 67 people, including 36 children 2014 2015 central african republic. cases acted upon, punitive action minimal. one case, un found sufficient evidence cameroonian police officer engaged least one incident sexual exploitation haiti 2009. 2015, repatriated, cameroon yet conclude case jailed. another, soldier congo republic found guilty "exploitative sexual relations" repatriated un jailed government 15 days. senegalese soldier found guilty raping child ivory coast august 2016, repatriated yet prosecuted home country. responding numbers, atul khare, under-secretary general united nations department field support, told al jazeera un "well aware shortcomings system". but, added: "our partnership member states, hold perpetrators accountable cases involving military personnel, seeing results." un's salgado told al jazeera: "over last two years, seen increase response rate member states, 92 percent. also seen last two years, troop-contributing countries imposing harsher punishments national laws allow." [illustration jawahir al-naimi/al jazeera] governments senegal , congo republic, democratic republic congo, cameroon reply repeated requests comment cases. al jazeera also repeatedly reached governments morocco south africa comment unresolved cases involving troops received reply. response questions ongoing case eight uruguayan peacekeepers accused sexually exploiting two women democratic republic congo march 2017, ambassador elbio rosselli, permanent representative uruguay un, told al jazeera government "has moving tirelessly field taking several measures tackle sexual exploitation abuse" "tackling sea [sexual exploitation abuse] high priority" government. roselli said previous cases usually concluded within two three months. un forthcoming, 'whatever happens africa, stays africa' approach; constantly torn scourge impression majority marsha henry, lse even questions remain whether justice served. 2011, five uruguayan peacekeepers gang-raped haitian teenager recorded attack phones. although uruguayan president apologised incident following public outcry, case went court, four five soldiers found guilty "private violence" instead rape. subsequently sentenced two years one month prison. fifth soldier acquitted. so, stopped? march 9, 2017, un secretary-general, antonio guterres , released "special measures" report described "new approach combat sexual exploitation abuse". aids free world, repeatedly urged creation independent body responsible investigating crimes committed un, argues allow un continue policing lead nowhere. asked un able investigate itself, salgado told al jazeera "this question member states make rules general assembly." meanwhile, henry says struggles reconcile reports everyday abuse fact many peacekeepers try make life better host population. "the un forthcoming, 'whatever happens africa, stays africa' approach; constantly torn scourge impression majority this." ultimately, donovan says, comes accountability. un troops need know held accountable actions, says. "these rules, recommendations. commit crime, prosecuted. go jail. way." port-au-prince, haiti maria kalichi* 17 attacked peacekeeper near home port-au-prince. over, put car dropped side road. weeks, kalichi didn't tell anyone happened. realised pregnant. told mother report rape un. son four years old. "i want justice finding person this. want hear say … walking around streets feeling destitute un," says. source: al jazeera *name changed protect identity currently 4,971 peacekeepers haiti. since 2015, 18 accusations sexual abuse assault. allegations concern 20 un peacekeepers 16 survivors. date, none accused jailed. follow azad essa twitter: @azadessa source: al jazeera author azad essa azad essa journalist al jazeera, covering sub-saharan africa. human rights africa un
saudi-led coalition managed deepen political divide yemen, according confidential un report [file: epa] saudi arabia's military intervention yemen proved "strategic failure", full official withdrawal country unlikely, analysts say. last week, series leaked emails revealed saudi arabia 's crown prince defence minister, mohammed bin salman bin abdulaziz al saud , expressed desire end war yemen talks former us officials. leaked emails, mohammed bin salman said '"wants out" two-year war started yemen us rapprochement iran end conflict. adam baron, yemen analyst, says saudi pull going "complete" since kingdom's security largely reliant yemen's security. "yes, saudis would like war-but terms," baron said. "what's broadly necessary would deal ensures saudi interests preserved yemen, heavy weaponry handed over, end cross border attacks, incipient iranian influence allowed gain permanence, let alone expand," baron told al jazeera. "it's kingdom's interest prevent yemen devolving chaotic abyss." conflict killed 10,000 people injured 40,000 date. wednesday, air strike hotel near yemeni capital, sanaa, killed least 35 people, local medic said. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5547050424001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5547050424001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: un accuses saudi, uae funding armed groups yemen (2:27) pageloadedsuccessfully yemen long arab region's poorest country, previously relied us aid assistance neighbours stay afloat. inflation worsening unemployment rates soared prior 2011 uprising. money country's dwindling oil reserves wasted stolen overthrown president ali abdullah saleh's 33-year reign. 2015 un report exposed saleh's accumulated fortune $60bn corruption , extortion embezzlement. following saleh's overthrow, bloody civil war erupted houthi rebels supporters yemen's internationally recognised government. september 2014, houthi fighters took control capital, sanaa, pushed towards yemen's biggest city, aden. response houthis' advances, coalition arab states led saudi arabia launched military campaign march 2015 drive houthis sanaa. war left various areas dire need humanitarian assistance enabled al-qaeda grow amid security vacuum. yemen, home 27 million people, verge famine middle " unprecedented " cholera outbreak. referring saudi-led war yemen, un warned country heading towards "total collapse." currently, seven million people verge starvation due border blockades impoverishment years war, 80 percent population reliant form humanitarian aid. according un, world's largest humanitarian crisis yemen. read more: benefits weak divided yemen? saudi arabia's involvement contributed country's humanitarian crisis , damaging mohammed bin salman's image internationally regionally, says luciano zaccara, gulf politics researcher qatar university. retreat means defeat. also means collapse goals coalition came achieve yemen. yaseen al-tamimi , sanaa-based political analyst "the increasing criticism worldwide coalition attacks - considered main reason behind cholera epidemic killing thousands civilians, obscure situation detainees, blockade sanaa airport hudaida port preventing humanitarian supply arrive blocked areas controlled houthis, making war unpopular," zaccara told al jazeera. "allowing sanaa airport operate may help ease critical humanitarian situation, even though still hands houthis. opening airport also allow thousands people leave country receive specialised treatment," said. similarly, confidential un report conducted un security council panel experts, determined coalition continues "little operational tactical impact ground". although one suadi-led offensive's main objectives reinstate abd-rabbu mansour hadi , internationally recognised president exiled 11 months, political reality ground succeeded dividing hadi's supporters - fighting legitimacy, according report. south formed "competing political council ... stated goal independent south yemen," report pointed out. "it [the council] includes key officials members legitimate government." report goes examine proxy militia groups, armed members saudi-led coalition, pursuing individual agendas - result weakened hadi's position. saudi "total partial" pull happen, says zaccara, saudi arabia would ensure appropriate political solution would implemented preserve image internationally. "even though houthis may benefit this, still strong criticism [houthis] role controlled area addressed," added. interactive: yemen conflict - controls sanaa-based political analyst, yaseen al-tamimi, anticipate saudi pull out, describing possibility saudi exit yemen "dangerous". "a retreat means defeat," tamimi said. "it also means collapse goals coalition came achieve yemen. coalition's withdrawal help saudi kingdom maintaining safe borders [with yemen]," told al jazeera. "there readily available solution fill vacuum war-ravaged nation. legitimate government yemen sufficient resources continue war win it," tamimi added. according report, houthi-saleh forces, united arab emirates - member coalition - "continue engage detention practices violate international humanitarian law human rights norms." report references cases prolonged disappearances infringe yemeni people's individual liberties. houthi fighters continue suppress voices discontent, yemenis say saudi exit strengthen houthis' grip. "the beneficiaries saudi exit houthis want rule yemen," halah mansr, sanaa-based university student, told al jazeera. "we care end helm country. peace want." "even areas liberated coalition unstable … success. setback coalition - haven't succeeded militarily, diplomatically [by bringing stability yemen]," mansr added. believe end war followed steps. "yemenis suffering abroad. [the coalition] pull out, life change better," leila saleh, university student, told al jazeera. "i want coalition pull out, time push parties conflict peace negotiations. interest yemenis." video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5546347499001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5546347499001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: saudi-led coalition failing yemen? (24:45) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera authors farah najjar farah najjar online producer al jazeera english. khalid al-karimi middle east yemen saudi arabia un human rights
rohingya refugees gather collect relief supplies balukhali makeshift refugee camp bangladesh may 31, 2017 [mohammad ponir hossain/reuters] last month, myanmar's de-facto leader former human-rights icon aung san suu kyi convened conference try end many wars wracked country half century. leaders military ethnic armed groups, politicians, civil society activists descended myanmar's capital naypyidaw stated aim achieving suu kyi's national league democracy (nld) party promised came power april 2016 - "national reconciliation". end myanmar's decades-long conflicts remains distant ever. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5465882398001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5465882398001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > upfront: aung san suu kyi: turning back rohingya? (12:00) commander-in-chief myanmar military spoke last month's conference "burning desire" bring peace country, video footage myanmar army soldiers torturing ethnic men dressed civilian clothes emerged. clip shows soldiers beating, kicking threatening death several bound men. commanding officer repeatedly bludgeons one man, says, "i'm going break teeth cut tongue." kind brutality myanmar military continues use ethnic communities, nothing new - december, footage surfaced online showing state security forces rakhine state beating ethnic rohingya men similar fashion. yet aung san suu kyi's government announced block united nations fact-finding mission aimed holding responsible account. myanmar's leaders serious ending civil war culture impunity country, everything power cooperate un mission. reporter's notebook: myanmar's democracy icon aung san suu kyi lost voice march 24, un human rights council passed landmark resolution mandating fact-finding mission myanmar "establish facts circumstances alleged recent human rights violations military security forces … view ensuring full accountability perpetrators justice victims." suu kyi's thinly veiled defence myanmar's security forces latest example failure promote protect human rights rather welcome it, last week aung san suu kyi told press conference sweden's prime minister stefan lofven fact-finding mission "in keeping needs region trying establish harmony understanding". previously announced government myanmar "disassociated" resolution "not keeping actually happening ground". aung san suu kyi's thinly veiled defence myanmar's security forces latest example failure promote protect human rights feeble justification precluding fact-finding mission. resistance particularly problematic given unparalleled standing country could swing public opinion push justice accountability. however, heretofore failure cooperate obscure real reason government's apparent opposition fact-finding mission. behind scenes, myanmar's military leaders everything frustrate aung san suu kyi's administration keep international eyes away crimes, particularly country's north west. failure government acknowledge properly investigate recent atrocities myanmar army rohingya muslim civilians rakhine state prompted un establish mission. however, mandate broad limited investigating human rights violations rakhine state. good thing myanmar - better time fact-finding mission work. opinion: aung san suu kyi's inexcusable silence fighting northern myanmar escalated aung san suu kyi's administration. estimated 100,000 people fled fighting north since conflict myanmar military kachin independence army (kia) resumed june 2011. local civil society colleagues fortify rights documented extrajudicial killings, rape, torture, forced labour, indiscriminate attacks myanmar army course conflict. life-saving aid displaced severely restricted. thousands people adequate food, healthcare shelter. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5429943467001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5429943467001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > 101 east: aung san suu kyi's myanmar - 101 east (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully rakhine state, myanmar military conducted "clearance operations" several villages following october attack rohingya fighters border guard posts. since december, fortify rights documented cases myanmar security forces raping rohingya women girls, slitting men's throats, burning people alive - cases killing children infants. findings consistent un report published february, concluded myanmar's security forces committing crimes humanity rakhine state. aung san suu kyi civilian government delicate spot. 2008 constitution, military declare state emergency suspend elected government. however, little likelihood happening dark prospect would still justify wholesale denials atrocity crimes active obstruction justice. moreover, domestic support un mission growing: scores organisations throughout country pressured government fully cooperate fact-finding mission. footage myanmar army's brutality surfaced peace conference delegates parted ways returned home respective areas conflict. conference billed step towards "national reconciliation" instead served remind us biggest obstacle stands way - impunity myanmar army's crimes. allowing un fact-finding mission unfettered access investigate human rights violations military security forces would help bring impunity end, prevent violations, earn much-needed trust myanmar's long-suffering minorities. david baulk myanmar human rights specialist fortify rights. author forthcoming report avoidable deprivations aid war-affected communities myanmar. follow twitter @davidbaulk views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author david baulk david baulk myanmar human rights specialist fortify rights. myanmar asia aung san suu kyi rohingya un
today unrwa aids five million registered palestinian refugees lebanon, syria, jordan, west bank, east jerusalem gaza strip [mohammed salem/reuters] june 11, 2017, israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu called dismantling un agency aids millions palestinian refugees , accusing stoking anti-israeli sentiments perpetuating palestinian refugee problem. netanyahu, meeting us ambassador un, nikki haley, jerusalem , said, "it time unrwa dismantled merged united nations high commissioner refugees". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5056774850001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5056774850001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: palestinian refugee: 'i feel like stranger country'(1:30) united nations relief works agency palestine refugees near east ( unrwa ) established un general assembly 1949 hundreds thousands palestinians fled expelled homes war followed israel's creation. since establishment, unrwa provided education , healthcare, social services meeting definition "palestine refugees". organisation defines palestine refugee someone whose place residence palestine june 1946 may 1948 lost his/her home means livelihood result 1948 arab-israeli conflict. unrwa also provides basic services palestinians became displaced result 1967 arab-israeli conflict. today, unrwa aids five million registered palestinian refugees lebanon , syria, jordan, occupied west bank , east jerusalem gaza strip . returning homeland netanyahu wants dismantle unrwa agency allows palestinian refugee men transmit refugee status one generation another. transmission refugee status keeps right return palestinian refugees alive - ensures hopes returning ancestral homeland perish death original 1948 refugees. israel accused unrwa "perpetuating palestinian refugee problem" allowing palestinian refugees transmit refugee status future generations. accusation aims shift attention away fact israel solely responsible perpetuating palestinian refugee problem denying refugees right return homes. read more: israel calls end un palestinian refugee agency israel accepted right return accorded palestinian refugees un general assembly resolution 194 1948, palestinian refugee problem would exist today descendants, inherited parents' refugee status, would instead inherited citizenship accorded parents historic palestine . consequence israel's unwillingness allow palestinian refugees return homes, un general assembly repeatedly extend unrwa's mandate mandate end lasting solution found palestinian refugee problem. unrwa prescribe particular solution problem palestinian refugees, unrwa's spokesman chris gunness, 2011, implied resettlement wrote op-ed problem cannot "be made go away dispersing [palestinian refugees] around globe." unhcr insist repatriation unlike unrwa, un high commissioner refugees ( unhcr ) specific mandate aid refugees eliminating refugee status medium local integration host country, resettlement third country repatriation possible. netanyahu wants 1948 palestine refugees fall scope unhcr insist repatriation. unrwa continue exist fair solution palestinian refugee problem materialises. unrwa dismantled merged unhcr, palestinian refugees scattered middle east effectively lose hope returning homeland. since possibility repatriation effectively blocked israel, unhcr either integrate host countries resettle third country. furthermore, unrwa dismantled, palestinian refugees registered agency longer excluded scope 1951 convention relating status refugees stateless persons, calls upon contracting states facilitate assimilation naturalisation refugees. exclusion clause added convention arab states wanted make sure principle naturalisation within 1951 convention affect right return palestinian refugees. unrwa dismantled, palestinian refugees automatically lose exclusive status . arab countries hosting unrwa camps parties 1951 convention, still affected text. without unrwa, palestinian refugees fall unhcr mandate bases work 1951 convention. means arab countries hosting palestinian refugees find pressure either integrate palestinian refugees agree resettlement third country. palestinian refugees could integrated resettled find facing legal limbo. waiting fair solution unrwa merges unhcr, palestinian refugees descendants either integrated resettled result longer recognised refugees lose hope repatriation. netanyahu wants - ending palestinian refugee problem dissolving refugee status alongside right return homeland. unrwa receives mandate un general assembly assembly members long supporting agency. unrwa's current mandate ends june 30, 2017, netanyahu try best influence next un general assembly vote future agency. opinion: xenophobia solve lebanon's refugee crisis unrwa continue exist fair solution palestinian refugee problem materialises. members un general assembly voting unrwa's mandate, hope remember words un security council mediator, folke bernadotte , 1948 noted "no settlement complete … innocent victims conflict denied right return homes." bernadotte assassinated zionist group 1948 defending right return palestinian refugees. innocent victims died defending continue suffer grave injustice able return homes. middle injustice, unrwa un agency continue protect serve palestinian refugees without stripping right return. therefore, saving unrwa means saving palestinian refugees. hanin abou salem political analyst researcher. holds (hons) international relations, ba (hons) social sciences second ba (hons) international relations. currently completing phd international law focusing right return palestinian refugees international law. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author hanin abou salem hanin abou salem political analyst researcher. palestine un israel human rights israeli–palestinian conflict
armed fighters belonging 3r armed militia stands guard town koui, central african republic april 27, 2017 [baz ratner/ reuters] last month, sat monica, 30-year-old polio survivor bambari, war-torn town central african republic . living displacement camp intense fighting forced flee town bakala, 110 kilometres away. "i went house hide," said, describing bakala violence. "my husband told stay left kids hide outside. chased bush killed." camp, monica - can't walk - alone struggles find food. haunted memory husband three children, ages 2, 3 4. "i lost everything," said. "these men kill us …they treat us lives worth nothing. ever know done?" video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(3062574963001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_3062574963001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: quick overview car crisis (1:03) pageloadedsuccessfully violence central african republic fallen world's radar, mean killings let up. dozen armed groups roam country committing range abuses. violence rise eastern provinces impunity still reigns. comprehensive new report un, released week, makes extent devastation abundantly clear. draw urgently needed attention bloody crisis spur action help end. 369-page "mapping report" documents serious violations human rights international humanitarian law 2003 2015, central african republic task immense. eight-member team conducted field investigations combed 1,200 documents. cover 620 crimes "of serious gravity" committed various parties, including village burnings, killings rape. read more: car tops list 'world's neglected' crises report establishes timeline violence rule former president françois bozize seleka armed group overthrew bozize fractured different armed bands. report exercise historical record. written eye towards ensuring justice crimes documents: road map prosecutors hold responsible serious crimes account. international level, international criminal court ( icc ) opened investigations september 2014 document facilitate work. however, icc likely target handful suspects. task dealing many crimes falls special criminal court (scc), unique judicial body established central african republic 2015. national international judges prosecutors, court mandate investigate prosecute grave human rights violations country since 2003. together icc, scc offers meaningful opportunity break cycles impunity plagued country years. warlords commanders need held accountable killings people like monica know lives, lives families, worth something. special court, government united nations effectively road map action. mapping report establish individual criminal responsibility, highlights many serious crimes priority areas investigations. critical next step ensuring court gets full funding needs becomes operational soon possible. includes working protect witnesses secure court personnel. government taken important steps recent months, including appointments chief prosecutor senior personnel, get court running, appointing point-person president's office. governments pledged $5.2m needed $7m first 14 months court. donors un back court long term, including technical logistical support. ensure amnesty grave crimes part peace deals negotiated un others. warlords commanders need held accountable killings people like monica know lives, lives families, worth something. next report see progress report justice. lewis mudge researcher africa division human rights watch focusing central african republic since 2013. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author lewis mudge lewis mudge researcher africa division human rights watch focusing central african republic. central african republic war & conflict un africa
people move remaining pomegranate fruits saudi-led air raid saada, yemen october 17, 2017 [naif rahma/reuters] earlier year, left home yemen try tell world story collapsing suffering country, story largely ignored despite united nations calling "the largest humanitarian crisis world". ignored, despite grave violations committed parties conflict since 2014, including use starvation weapon war. ignored, despite war driven seven million civilians - entire population washington, dc, metropolitan area - brink famine . ignored, despite 750,000 cases cholera, world's worst outbreak disease. last month, international community took first step longer ignore conflict yemen, un human rights council established new international panel experts report violations committed sides horrible conflict. doing, international community finally sent clear message warring parties - saudis partners, ansar allah armed group (also known houthis ) ally former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh , current yemeni president abd-rabbu mansour hadi 's forces armed groups loyal - world finally watching, impunity longer reign yemen, violations human rights laws war meet consequences. {articleguid} made promise accountability two years conflict, international community owes people yemen ensure words human rights council's resolution translated reality. un must select strong, impartial experts panel, women men character afraid identify perpetrators violations sides. countries like united states , united kingdom, france , stood saudi emirati allies despite documented attacks civilians - indeed, continued sell saudi arabia uae bombs weapons use air strikes yemen - must give un panel proper backing, matter findings conclusions. un experts must realise mandate speak truth power, identify responsible killing innocent men, women, children yemen. international community takes opportunity work end conflict, yemen's next chapter could one hope, could begin rebuilding broken country saving millions lives lost. often, causes peace justice presented irreconcilable conflict, yemen, establishment new un investigative mechanism help advance peaceful resolution conflict, shining light violations parties making clear victories battlefield cannot lead political gains. coupled diplomatic pressure, could incentivise parties go back negotiating table. international community use moment heightened scrutiny restart un-led peace process. {articleguid} us, uk , france - permanent un security council members support strong un inquiry - special responsibility seize moment. international community misses opportunity continues ignore yemen, consequences dire. yemen's people continue suffer starvation, bombardment, disease scale unseen anywhere else world, threat west increase terrorists extremists us state department confirmed using yemen's instability multiply strength numbers. story yemen told travels date one tragedy, suffering, neglect rest world. international community takes opportunity work end conflict, yemen's next chapter could one hope, could begin rebuilding broken country saving millions lives lost. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author radhya almutawakel radhya almutawakel chairperson mwatana, yemeni human rights organisation. middle east yemen war & conflict un human rights
renderpagesvideo('5625441271001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); un secretary-general antonio guterres visited one regions worst affected increasing violence central african republic . almost 2,000 people currently sheltering refugee camp town bangassou, dramatic rise conflict armed groups recent months. safety security seem depend un peacekeepers, peacekeepers accused sexually abusing sent protect. al jazeera's nicolas haque reports bangassou. central african republic un war & conflict africa
clear country group behind deadly attack [alexander klein/afp/getty images] least 17 people killed 30 wounded air strike libya's eastern city derna, medical official told anadolu news agency. official al-huraish state hospital derna, declined named, said monday "state emergency" declared medical facility call blood donations made dead wounded rushed hospital. clear country group behind deadly attack. us carried least four known air strikes libya since 2015. uk france also special forces operating cloud secrecy country. {articleguid} july last year, three french soldiers killed military helicopter shot armed group called benghazi defence brigades (bdb). since toppling muammar gaddafi 2011 following armed uprising assisted western military intervention, libya remains bitterly divided, two rival governments struggling wield influence large country. besieged year dozens armed groups engaged war killed hundreds displaced thousands civilian population. derna besieged year armed groups loyal general khalifa haftar, self-styled chief libyan national army (lna). {articleguid} mujahideen shura council, currently de facto control derna, took city islamic state iraq levant ( isil , also known isis) 2015. city eastern libya controlled forces general haftar. haftar, backed egypt, france government based eastern city tobruk, important divisive player libyan politics. lna opposes un-backed government national accord (gna) based capital tripoli, controls much western part country, including misrata. 2015 un-backed peace deal failed unite warring factions. source: al jazeera news agencies africa libya middle east un arab spring
renderpagesvideo('5625445115001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); un's emergency relief coordinator arrived yemen's capital, sanaa, see deteriorating humanitarian crisis himself. war yemen killed 10,000 yemenis injured 40,000 more. war-torn country close famine facing cholera outbreak that's caused two thousand deaths. un estimates around 80 percent population need humanitarian aid. al jazeera's victoria gatenby reports. yemen un war & conflict middle east
crying rohingya girl fleeing ongoing violence fears grow cascade cancellations ripples myanmar’s fledgling tourism industry, shocking images burnt villages muslim rohingya fleeing army-led violence western rakhine state sparking global outrage. half million rohingya forced flee neighboring bangladesh two months, carrying testimony killings, rape arson hands soldiers buddhist mobs, myanmar’s fledgling tourism sector could collapse back dark days military rule. ever since bloodshed broke late august, tourism operators witnessed torrent cancellations emerging industry gearing high season october. "almost trips scheduled october november cancelled due instability country, situation rakhine state," said tun tun naing new fantastic asia travels tour, agency leads trips pristine beaches mist-shrouded lakes dot lush country. "most groups japan, australia asian countries cited security reasons europeans clearly said boycotted humanitarian situation." leaders uk, us, france, canada australia urged myanmar leader aung san suu kyi push end violence rohingya, far, failed explicitly condemn killings, human rights watch un director louis charbonneau called "ethnic cleansing campaign". need "strong un action compel myanmar security services end ethnic cleansing campaign", charbonneau said. yangon, bustling city known crumbling colonial architecture, foreign tourists could still seen circling gilded shwedagon pagoda looms former capital. admitted ongoing crisis awkward backdrop holiday. "it's sad see country becoming, guide told us muslims dangerous burmese," said french tourist christine, declined give surname. distinguished guests also keeping distance, prince charles, heir british throne, wife camilla deciding skip stop former colony autumn tour asia. refugee crisis could throw myanmar's fledgling tourism sector back dark days military rule, many travelers passed pariah state avoid lining pockets generals brutally suppressed human rights. started change army initiated transition partial democracy 2011. move saw western sanctions lifted, foreign tourists flocked landscapes unspoiled crowds travel infrastructure mushroomed elsewhere region. first half 2017 kicked well 22 percent increase visitors compared previous year, according figures ministry tourism, hopes double number annual arrivals 7.5 million 2020. end august, western rakhine state flames. hours south conflict zone rakhine state lies mrauk-u, ancient capital hallowed archaeological site. two months crisis, locals say site empty tourists normally buzzing around ruins. "all people live tourism work now," said guide aung soe myint. source: news agencies asia asia pacific myanmar tourism rohingya
renderpagesvideo('5623710002001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); correction : previous version story cited human rights activists saying united nations enough prosecute french peacekeeping soldiers accused rape sexual abuse central african republic. appeared suggest french troops part un peacekeeping force country. actual fact, deployed french army responsibility prosecution facing accusations lies french armed forces. human rights groups believe several children central african republic (car) raped 2013-2014 french soldiers protect them. forced sex dogs even took pictures act. france opened investigation, prosecutors later dropped cases saying enough evidence charge soldiers involved. french troops left car late 2016. since, violence displacement people intensified. it's left un peacekeepers bring back stability country, one mandate: protecting civilian population. un investigation revealed peacekeepers car violating mandate sexually abusing girls. human rights groups fear many cases sexual abuse soldiers go unreported. antonio guterres, new un secretary-general, says zero tolerance abuse. un also investigating cases putting measures place prevent happening again. far, one arrested charged. al jazeera's nicolas haque reports. un central african republic africa
renderpagesvideo('5625926894001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); report chemical weapon attacks syria due released thursday. un investigators claimed evidence proving carried attacks, un hoped conduct investigations responsible. but, proposal vetoed russia , ally syrian president bashar al-assad's government. left many affected khan sheikhoun attack, 80 people killed 500 injured idlib province, feeling abandoned world. al jazeera's hashem ahelbarra reports gaziantep, turkey-syria border. syria's civil war un war & conflict middle east
renderpagesvideo('5628206233001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); us vice president mike pence says country longer fund says "ineffective" un relief efforts persecuted religious minorities middle east . pence says funds instead distributed directly us agency international development. al jazeera’s rosiland jordan reports washington, dc. un united states us & canada human rights
pro-taiwan china unification activist [sam yeh/afp/getty images] taiwanese leader tsai ing-wen landed honolulu en route island's diplomatic allies among pacific nations, despite strong objections visit china . un resolution 2758 self-ruled taiwan sovereign territory china. china regularly calls sensitive important issue us , complaining washington transit stops taiwanese high-level officials. us noted "no change us one-china policy" recognises beijing takes view one china, taiwan part it. tsai, china believes seeking formal independence taiwan, left saturday week-long trip three pacific island allies - tuvalu , solomon islands marshall islands - via honolulu us territory guam. part, tsai says wants maintain peace china defend taiwan's democracy security. earlier week, us state department said tsai's transits us soil would "private unofficial" based long-standing us practice consistent "our unofficial relations taiwan". tsai, accompanied entourage members media, left short boat ride uss arizona memorial, built remains battleship sunk pearl harbor second world war, saturday afternoon. us president donald trump due visit china less two weeks. angered beijing last december taking telephone call tsai shortly presidential election. trip us tsai's second year. january, stopped houston san francisco way latin america , visiting headquarters twitter , blocked china. mao zedong's communist forces chinese civil war chiang kai-shek's nationalists fled island. china renounced possible use force enforce un resolution 2758 maintain territorial integrity. source: news agencies asia asia pacific china taiwan un
syrian girl heads school ghouta town [amer almohibany/afp/getty images] 260 million children youths across world, equivalent combined population russia , poland germany, access education , according new report unesco. 61 million children primary school-age (6-11 years) disadvantaged, 60 million lower secondary school-age (12-14 years), upper secondary school-age (15-17 years) set 142 million. findings part 2030 agenda sustainable development report released jointly unesco institute statistics global education monitoring (gem) report. report based data 128 countries period 2010- 2015. irina bokova, director-general unesco, urged global community undertake common effort overcome educational "failure". "there today 264 million children youth going school - failure must tackle together, education shared responsibility progress sustainable common efforts. "according report representing 90 percent global population upper secondary school age, less one four young people completed upper secondary school 40 countries less one two 60 countries ... 14 countries completion rate least 90 percent," said "governments primary duty bearers right education, yet right justiciable almost half countries, primary course action complaint lost," added. said stronger mechanisms established tackle failure also "to enshrine enforce right education hold governments account commitments, including donors". source: news agencies un education africa asia asia pacific
refugees protesting australian png governments [al jazeera] australian prime minister malcolm turnbull rejected wellington's offer resettle refugees new zealand . turnbull snubbed new zealand's renewed offer resettle 150 refugees illegally held remote pacific camps despite closure one detention centre papua new guinea , triggered standoff refugees australian authorities. issue re-emerged australian prime minister met new zealand counterpart jacinda ardern first time sunday sydney. canberra forced defensive move wellington's new government, prime minister malcolm turnbull saying australia would instead prioritise similar deal us resettle refugees us, despite slow progress. australia come fire un high commissioner human rights , spokesman geneva friday calling canberra move refugees manus australia criticising offshore asylum processing policy "unsustainable, inhumane contrary human rights obligations". "we urge governments australia papua new guinea fully respect human rights ... enter dialogue men ensure rights duly respected, protected fulfilled," spokesman added. 600 detainees refusing leave citing safety fears move transition centres locals reportedly unwelcoming. conditions camp deteriorating limited food water electricity cut off, united nations warning humanitarian emergency. strict immigration policy, canberra sends asylum seekers try reach australia boat two camps, manus nauru, barred ever resettling australia. australia struggled move refugees third countries, cambodia papua new guinea. "the offer genuine remains table," ardern told reporters meeting turnbull. australian leader replied appreciated offer, first made wellington 2013, "we taking time." "we arrangement united states ... want pursue those, conclude arrangements wake that, obviously consider ones," said joint press conference. american deal, struck previous us president barack obama bitterly criticised successor donald trump , 54 refugees accepted, 24 flown us . agreement envisaged resettling 1,250 refugees manus nauru us, vetting process slow. turnbull said government successfully stopped arrival asylum seeker boats cited fears people-smuggling trade could restarted. "many people smugglers trying get people new zealand," added. despite widespread criticism, canberra defended policy. source: afp news agency asia pacific australia new zealand papua new guinea refugees
russia vetoed ten resolutions syria since conflict started 2011 [brendan mcdermid/reuters] un inquiry chemical weapons use war syria set expire russia vetoed us-sponsored resolution would extended mandate. mandate joint investigative mechanism (jim), inquiry launched jointly un organization prohibition chemical weapons (opcw) 2015, expire thursday midnight new york time (05:00 friday, gmt). eleven security council members states voted favour resolution, two abstained, two voted it, including russia, holds veto power permanent member council. "for tenth time syria, fourth time chemical weapons, russia actively obstructed international community's ability identify perpetrators chemical weapons attacks," nikki haley, us mbassador un, said vote. using veto kill mechanism syria holds users chemical weapons accountable, russia proves cannot trusted credible work towards political solution syria. — nikki haley (@nikkihaley) november 16, 2017 "russia killed joint investigative mechanism. "the message anyone listening clear: effect, russia accepts use chemical weapons syria." earlier thursday, us president donald trump said twitter security council must extend jim's mandate ensure president bashar al-assad's government syria "does commit mass murder chemical weapons ever again". "there many instances chemical weapons use syria must investigated," us mission un said statement earlier week. divided security council us urged security council "stand united face chemical weapons use civilians extend work critical group". "not would give consent atrocities tragically failing syrian people suffered despicable acts," statement said. security council divided jim's mandate, us allies one side russia, staunch ally assad government, other. earlier week, vasily nebenzya, russia's ambassador un, aid russian delegation discussions us inquiry's future. russia also expected present resolution work jim, said aimed correct "systemic errors" mechanism's current mandate. includes ensuring future investigations conducted on-site chain custody preserved, nebenzya said november 13. "it guided highest standards opcw provides follow," said, according statement posted russian delegation's website. procedural vote russia lost procedural vote security council thursday ordered put resolution vote us proposal, withdrew resolution. al jazeera's james bays, reporting un headquarters new york, said us russia wanted vote second "because vote first, can't see people voted". "so advantage potentially second," said. {articleguid} recent report, released late october, jim concluded syrian government released sarin gas april 2017 attack khan sheikhoun killed around 100 people. also said islamic state iraq levant ( isil , also known isis) group responsible releasing sulphur mustard gas attack umm hawsh september last year. two women exposed mustard gas incident mortar shell containing substance hit house, another shell found lodged pavement, un said. "there sufficient evidence credible reliable nature make findings," said edmond mulet, heads jim, briefing report's findings. though un said "too dangerous" visit umm hawsh khan sheikhoun, committee said gathered enough information make solid conclusion, according un statement. mulet said jim conducted work "in independent, impartial professional manner". russian veto russia vetoed earlier resolution sponsored us extend jim's work additional year, saying time wanted wait release jim's report chemical weapons use syrian government. eleven security council member states voted favour resolution late october, russia bolivia voted china kazakhstan abstained. including thursday's vote, russia vetoed 10 resolutions syria since conflict started 2011. joint statement released earlier month, rex tillerson, us secretary state; jean-yves le drian, french foreign minister; boris johnson, uk foreign secretary; igmar gabriel, german foreign minister, condemned use chemical weapons syrian government isil. "we agree vital international community continue investigate cases chemical weapons used syria," said. source: al jazeera news syria's civil war un middle east
renderpagesvideo('5633409612001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); un estimates around 900 reporters killed jobs past decade. however, one ten cases led conviction. international day end impunity crimes journalists , look troubling trends facing media workers around world, us turkey . journalism fire media un
arms losses occurred african countries, including somalia, congo, sudan burundi [atef/safadi/epa] united nations, new york – un-backed peacekeepers lost enough guns ammunition sub-saharan africa past two decades arm army, according study small arms survey. research group's director, eric berman, said peacekeepers lost "at least thousands weapons millions rounds ammunition" century, often handing local fighters without putting fight. losses range pistols bullets heavy machine guns, mortars, recoilless guns grenade launchers, military game-changers battlefields somalia , democratic republic congo, sudan , berman told al jazeera. "peacekeepers losing arms ammunition going used civilians they're asked protect, prolonging conflicts they're asked help resolve," berman said. 75-page study, called making tough job difficult , identifies 20 forces operating un, african union international coalition lost guns ammunition 1993-2017. losses occurred congo , somalia, sudan, burundi , ivory coast, sierra leone, mali central african republic. haiti , cambodia, israel-syria border balkans also affected. losses unavoidable, report said. peacekeepers ambushed patrolling "wrong place wrong time" overwhelmed surprise attack superior force caches plundered, berman said. incidents "less-than-best practice corruption" also rife, berman added. many hushed-up cases peacekeepers handing weapons rebels rather risk shoot-out, failing guard caches properly, uncovering rebel groups' arsenals selling black market, said berman. 'challenging conditions' aditya mehta, un peacekeeping spokesman, told al jazeera takes issue "very seriously" said small arms survey report overstated impact blue helmet arms losses turbulent parts africa. "the loss weapons peacekeeping operations exception, number weapons lost insignificant, far less half one per cent total amount weapons ammunition circulation around conflict zones darfur south sudan," said. losses occur "very challenging conditions", un already works hard raise standards, added. mehta fulfil al jazeera's request share un's register arms gone missing recent years. {articleguid} small arms survey report listed many examples losses. may 2000, zambian peacekeepers lost 500 assault rifles, machine guns, mortars 45,000 rounds ammunition surrendered sierra leonean rebels rather "fight way out" berman said. nigerian peacekeeping convoy similarly succumbed "not overwhelming force" rebels darfur, sudan, march 2010, handing 55 assault rifles, machine guns 14,000 rounds ammunition, added. details incidents unclear, berman said. according report, "political sensitivities opacity reporting resulted misleading" reports arms losses official un documents. report "the tip iceberg", berman added, saying true scale problem much greater relatively small number losses documented un newspaper reports recent decades. scale losses may even increasing, report suggested. kenyan troops amisom, au force somalia, lost 150 assault rifles, 26 machine guns, five mortars 140,000 rounds ammunition al-shabab rebels raided camp el adde january 2016, said. report also highlights june 2015, burundian troops lost comparable cache 100 assault rifles, 20 machine guns, anti-tank weapons mortars al-qaeda aligned fighters attacked leego, somalia. peacekeeping rocked scandals recent years, bringing deadly strain cholera haiti claimed 10,000 lives, well thousands claims sexual abuse blue helmets congo elsewhere. {articleguid} un also pressure us president donald trump . june, us trimmed annual peacekeeping budget $7.3bn, cutting $600m costs slicing 7.5 percent washington's bill. 80 countries set address peacekeeping problems summit vancouver, canada later week. 'significant problem' paul williams, scholar george washington university, said report's estimate peacekeeping weapons losses "conservative", adding deployment chiefs need better oversight, recovery accountability mechanisms. "this significant problem peacekeepers, organisations mandate pay peace operations, and, ultimately local populations, may see arms ammunition strengthen militant groups," williams told al jazeera. analysts told al jazeera peacekeepers often torn loyalties country serving world body. blue helmet troops may see answerable capitals rather un headquarters. norrie macqueen, university st andrews scholar, noted soldiers unwilling "die un" prone giving without fight. joachim koops, vrije universiteit brussels, agreed un weapons losses particularly significant. jean krasno, scholar editor leveraging success un peace operations, said arms losses seen context valuable contributions peacekeepers. un made africa safer destroying vast numbers guns various peace deals, said. "desperate" staff 15 missions 110,000 peacekeepers lax contributors. "to get numbers there, may look way terms vetting, training capability," krasno told al jazeera. berman, report's author, agreed un au face mighty challenges, "checks balances" internal oversight monitoring peacekeepers would keep better tabs weapons, saving money lives. follow james reinl twitter: @jamesreinl source: al jazeera news un sudan somalia democratic republic congo africa
refugee advocate, australia [david gray/reuters] papua new guinea delay least 24 hours plan forcibly evict hundreds men australian detention centre, three asylum seekers said. hundreds men barricaded manus island centre 11 days without regular food water, defying closure bids australia papua new guinea united nations calls "looming humanitarian crisis". rejecting un calls restore utilities camp, papua new guinea said week would "apprehend" responsible standoff forcibly evicted men saturday. several asylum seekers said papua new guinea officials told detainees could remain sunday. "police talking microphone outside prison," behrouz boochani, kurdish journalist iran spent four years held camp, told reuters. "they're telling refugees leave, saying tomorrow last day here," said text message. immediately clear caused postponement. pressure asylum seekers, drawn largely afghanistan , iran, myanmar, pakistan, sri lanka , syria, grown recent days papua new guinea tries get move three transit centres. asylum seekers fear reprisals move transit centres, pending possible resettlement united states . main camp closed october 31 water power cut off. island dwellers angry perceive preferential treatment asylum seekers, many well educated, poor, rural society, detainees come attack release camp. patience papua new guinea authorities begun wane, however, moved week remove camp fences dismantle rainwater collection bins, well makeshift shelters built ward tropical sun rain. pressure, groups men elected move transit centres. exact number left difficult ascertain, though manus island police commander david yapu told australian broadcasting corporation 400 remain. several remaining told reuters would move, setting scene potential clash, would stoke international criticism australia. australia used centre, camp tiny pacific island nauru, detain asylum seekers try reach shores boat. says boat arrivals never enter australia, even found refugees, would encourage people smugglers asia. acting prime minister julie bishop said reason remaining men choose stay, rejecting criticism inadequate facilities transit centres. "over last months travelled east lorengau many occasions never raised concerns," bishop told reporters perth. source: reuters news agency refugees australia papua new guinea un afghanistan
renderpagesvideo('5643295866001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); un european union welcoming initial steps saudi-led military coalition lift blockade yemen . government-held southern port aden open, national airline says resume flights aden seyoun. eu says it's enough prevent mass starvation. un aid agencies demanding full lifting restrictions, avoid humanitarian catastrophe. al jazeera's mereana hond reports. war & conflict yemen un european union middle east
french soldier africa's sahel region [benoit tessier/reuters] snipers new west african force lie prone rooftop central mali , scanning horizon islamist fighters infiltrated sparsely populated region south sahara made launchpad deadly attacks. thousands un peacekeepers, french troops us military trainers drone operators failed stem growing wave muslim fighters mali, leading international powers pin hopes new regional force. so-called g5 sahel initiative faces immense challenges decisively controlling arid sahel region countries, burkina faso , chad, mali, mauritania niger managed far. security sources analysts say strong emphasis military might tackling underlying causes muslims region taking arms, logistical shortfalls lack cooperation regional powerhouse algeria raise doubts whether g5 succeed years western intervention not. "there long way go reach full operational capacity, even though timeframe relatively short," g5 force commander general didier dacko told visiting un security council envoys last month, citing range needs aerial support communications equipment intelligence gathering. united nations, france united states poured billions dollars region past 15 years failed meaningfully address many local grievances driving conflict, analysts say. political social tensions, stalled peace process government armed groups mali, pushing youths take arms, growing rivalries farmers cattle herders rights abuses national armies. northern burkina faso, example, preacher malam ibrahim dicko gained adherents armed ansarul islam movement railing privileges traditional elites region scarred widespread poverty. local groups affiliated global organisations al-qaeda isil (also known isis), whose military defeats middle east led western governments zero vast regions north west africa prevent finding new bases. armed groups sahel draw frustrations central governments western forces back global armed group agenda, making security-heavy approaches risky, analysts say. "i think local communities mali niger feel alienated confused actions entities," said alexander thurston, assistant professor georgetown university specializes islam politics west africa. "the problems require political solutions, ultimately, g5 small underfunded force." g5’s backers say recognise need longer-term economic development, beefed-up security presence. mali last month, france’s un envoy francois delattre called two "absolutely inseparable". comes coughing up, development often gets short-changed. un initiative support regional security, governance development received 30 percent budget since 2013, latter two areas worst hit. france keenly backing g5, hoping provide eventual exit strategy costly 4,000 troops region. "terrorist groups sahel represent global threat," french foreign minster jean-yves le drian told security council last week. "the g5 sahel joint force right response challenge." last month’s attack niger killed eight nigerien us soldiers, prompting american officials predict intensified us involvement region. across street snipers’ perch sevare, mali, inside g5 headquarters, general dacko told security council diplomats planned take 1,000 "terrorists" estimated fight area. joint patrols, pursuit operations intelligence sharing among five countries contributing force, eventually boast nearly 5,000 soldiers, chase drug traffickers well armed fighters, said. neither un mission mali - cannot operate across borders - french army, concentrated training local forces going high value targets, made fortifying region’s porous borders priority. last week, g5 deployed first several hundred soldiers mali, niger burkina faso shared borderlands armed fighters carried dozens operations year. "the g5 source hope, believe completely," dacko said. initially sceptical force, us pledged $60mn last week. even so, commitments g5 countries donors stand third estimated $490mn force needs first year. money, logistical support local opposition aside, dacko said concerned relationship continent’s biggest country, algeria, g5 nations share collective border roughly 2,500 km (1,500 miles) long. armed groups emerged algeria early 1990s spread beyond borders. country’s constitution prohibits foreign military intervention, analysts say collaboration essential intelligence networks’ intimate knowledge regional armed parties. dacko, however, said process yet formalise security cooperation g5 north african country. algerian officials immediately available comment. source familiar algerian government’s thinking said already channels cooperation g5 military officials questioned need new force. "you minusma (the un peacekeeping mission) mali ... another regional group fight terror sahel?" source said. algeria also sees g5 effectively controlled former colonial occupier france, fought bitter independence war since regarded suspicion. "algeria perceives g5 sahel extension french influence region algeria traditionally dominant, france historically played essentially destabilising role," hannah armstrong, algeria expert international crisis group, said. algeria mediated talks leading 2015 peace deal mali, sometimes suspected could prevent rebels using desert spaces rear base. "it essential find ways partner (with algeria)," said soumeylou boubeye maiga, mali’s former intelligence chief. "as long shared evaluation, cannot imagine common course action." source: reuters news agency mali burkina faso niger chad mauritania
renderpagesvideo('5641509652001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); us joined un 20 aid groups appealing saudi arabia end blockade yemen . humanitarian groups warned 20 million people need urgent help food fuel prices skyrocket yemen saudi-led blockade tightens. say mass starvation, unprecedented scale, potentially weeks away unless aid allowed country. al jazeera’s hannah hoexter reports. war & conflict yemen un saudi arabia middle east
imtiaz cajee, nephew ahmed timol, poses book, timol: quest justice, high court pretoria, south africa [ap] durban, south africa - almost 50 years, claimed jumped death. thursday, 46 years later, pretoria high court put matter rest. judge billy mothle ruled ahmed timol, anti-apartheid activist, jumped window 10th floor police station johannesburg. timol, 29 time, pushed out. "timol jump window room 1026 either pushed window roof john vorster police station," mothle said. "thus commit suicide murdered. "the sub-standard sloppy manner investigation timol's death conducted, supposed view clear intent cover incident fabricated version suicide." following judgement, mothle ordered sergeant jan rodrigues, considered last person seen timol alive admitted part cover-up, investigated murder. ahmed timol? timol anti-apartheid activist johannesburg. school teacher member south african communist party. threats safety, timol fled london 1967, later underwent armed training moscow returning south africa part anc's armed wing. subsequently picked security branch october 1971 interrogated, tortured murdered notorious john vorster police station central johannesburg. 1970 1990, eight people detained police station died. described former detainees "pinnacle torture chambers". inquest 1972 concluded timol committed suicide, stance apartheid government consistently held. timol's family never accepted version consistently accused apartheid government murder. according report truth reconciliation commission, 75 deaths recorded detention apartheid, single police officer held responsible officially tried. 2015, timol's nephew, imtiaaz cajee, approached national prosecutions authority reopen case. verdict important one. first foremost, provides closure timol's family. verdict sheds light extent apartheid's cruelty, exposing brutality limited physical violence, home vast machinery concealment desecration character complex multifold. timol's murder one many stories injustice hidden apartheid, left mostly untouched since 1994, lest shake fragile democratic experiment. truth reconciliation commission brought solace, justice. instance, hawa timol testified 1996 death son, none perpetrators came forward. died year later. come define much selective amnesia regarding south africa's past. many ways, failures current anc-led government used reversion tremendous impact colonialism white-minority racist rule south africa. anything, judgement brings perspective: may time explore obscure, lesser-known details apartheid's crimes. may necessary understand south africa headed. follow azad essa twitter: @azadessa source: al jazeera author azad essa azad essa journalist al jazeera, covering sub-saharan africa. racism war & conflict south africa africa
harriet nantongo, mother one, one 23 women murdered [megan iacobini de fazio/al jazeera] kampala, uganda - noah musiba sat door night listening noise would signal return wife. nine-year-old daughter, sheerat, lay mattress floor feet, wide awake. early hours thursday, september 14, harriet nantongo, noah's wife 10 years sheerat's mother, returned work. "i hoped maybe slept sister's place, went look, wasn't there," said noah, "so started searching hospitals". afternoon, musiba reported wife missing, fearing worst. past year, working local rubbish dump, sifting garbage search polythene bags wash nearby stream. good day, could sell two 15kg bunches bags return home $3 pocket three-hour walk back family. wednesday night, hadn't come back. preceding months, several bodies women found dumped area, naked, strangled, sticks vaginas. first victim found nansana district, far kampala, may 27. may 30, three women found, killed dumped similar way. four bodies, one identified - nampijja juliet, mother two lived area. several - regina bakitte, mayor nansana, put number least 10 women - remain unidentified, found banana gardens cassava fields following weeks. early june, murders spread katabi town, entebbe district, harriet lived family. date, total 23 murders, according ugandan police, although many believe number may higher. last body, 22-year-old waitress sarah neliima, found september 20. harriet nantongo last seen alive leaving work local rubbish dump [megan iacobini de fazio/al jazeera] ugandans weigh political motive first murders went almost unnoticed "perhaps victims low-income women, women never priority country", said sandra nassali, representative local organisation acfode. police start investigating, reasons gave murders varied contradictory. first, kale kayihura, inspector general, blamed domestic violence. later, blamed unemployment , drug abuse criminal gangs. september 7, jeje odongo, internal affairs minister, claimed parliament murders linked group "devil worshipping" illuminati. asan kasingye, police spokesperson, told al jazeera: "some murders related land, gravitated domestic violence. "over half women prostitutes, others engaged several personal relationships, taken advantage of." ugandans satisfied explanations, many point possible political motives. "i don't believe anything witchcraft," said bakitte, mayor nansana. "i think it's political." bakitte, member democratic party, thinks government might organising killings attempt discredit opposition. "this opposition stronghold, katabi. it's coincidence. want people live fear." al jazeera made several attempts contact government representatives response, avail. bakitte also suggested bodies dumped strategic areas - patches land gardens belonging smallholder farmers, area value land steadily increasing. "they could use excuse say people don't develop land, government right grab security reasons," says bakitte, pointing recent controversy surrounding proposed amendment constitution would allow government take private land compensation. locations women's bodies led suggestions murders may political motives [megan iacobini de fazio/al jazeera] theories wide-ranging. mayor katabi town, ronald kalema, believed murders could "ruthless act somebody wants hurt government", attempt make uganda look insecure. "plus, can't underestimate importance entebbe, president lives. cannot protect entebbe, showing cannot protect country," said. another theory points widely reported clash leaders different security agencies - kahiyura, police inspector general (igp), henry tumukunde, security minister. "one rumours someone discredit igp make look bad", says bakitte, democratic party member. another rumour? "the police get resources funds," said. katabi, people back idea police involved. "everyone knows [police] this," says local driver, requested anonymity. kasingye, police spokesman, told al jazeera "99 percent certain organisation political economic agenda" behind killings, rumours taken hold "people area support opposition, rumour works them". tumukunde refused al jazeera's request comment. long-held rivalries jude kagoro, researcher based germany , spent decade studying ugandan security services police. although believe police involved, said spiralling rumours unsurprising. "these rivalries new. different security agencies must vie attention president, resources, recognition. don't compete you're game," said. mercy muduru spent weeks conducting investigation poring case files. senior programme manager uganda association women lawyers (fida), one activists convinced work serial killer, anything witchcraft. "this something deeper, something political," said. muduru believes timing murders - political situation country deteriorates greater repression - coincidence. "what better time one send message?" says. like activists, muduru outraged sees lack action authorities protect women, way cases discussed. "the trend always taint character women, police claiming victims prostitutes, even though research shows majority ... shouldn't matter anyway, one deserves killed like that," says. president museveni visited entebbe september 25, months murders started, reassure locals cases investigated authorities would "apprehend behind killings". various theories swirling around, says researcher kagoro, representative low opinion ugandans government security forces. "psyche reality might two different things, reasons people think way think also tell us lot," says. 'it her' unknown number people - "more 30" including 16-year-old girl, according kasingye - arrested cases remain police custody. least two businessmen, named local press, charged "terrorism", murder aggravated robbery. one accused, ivan katongole, due appear court recently, case postponed state prosecutors went strike. katongole works local fish business, accused carrying murders increase wealth witchcraft - accusation denies. muduru, activist, points much evidence circumstantial cases fears currently custody may innocent. "i disappointed way managed, place weight state seek justice," says. back katabi, noah recalls telling wife careful crossed busy highway, last time saw alive. six days reported missing, search party friends relatives neighbours found body bush close workplace. "i heard people screaming harriet's sister held back. collapsed said her," says. given police helping search. since day, noah contacted police, received kind support. noah looks ways pay daughter's education without harriet's meagre income, young motherless girl stays aunt. since wife's murder, noah musiba support young daughter alone [megan iacobini de fazio/al jazeera] source: al jazeera author megan iacobini de fazio uganda africa
renderpagesvideo('5648339353001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); harare, zimbabwe - capital zimbabwe finds caught hope uncertainty dawns residents 37 tumultuous years robert mugabe may longer ruling country. mood major shift considering people usually avoid discussing sensitive political matters public, wary attracting attention authorities little tolerance dissent. discontent recent years, military's surprise takeover wednesday appeared give new impetus free speech streets harare. "if comes pass, regard future 'second independence day', april 18, 1980," said tineyi chimwanda, identified local businessman. "this feels." 'pleasing development' power since 1980, mugabe, 93, led zimbabwe's fight independence 1970s. however, frequently faced accusations political repression economic mismanagement, many zimbabweans - especially urban population - blame long litany woes, including rampant unemployment, widespread poverty acute cash shortage. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5647170320001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5647170320001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > zimbabwe tensions: military seizes power, denies coup pageloadedsuccessfully early hours wednesday, zimbabwean army, previously used way suppress opposition, placed president "house arrest". broadcast military spokesman sibusiso moyo, announcing army's seizure power, repeatedly aired zimbabwe broadcasting corporation's sole tv channel - years mouthpiece mugabe close associates. moyo's speech cheered group restaurant customers lunch time central harare. military denies staging coup, saying move meant deal "criminals" within mugabe's circles. president family, army said, "safe sound". statement, however, seen careful attempt military keep lid potential unrest ensure bloodless transition mugabe's rule. {articleguid} reported duty wednesday followed proceedings via state tv channel workplaces bars. "as junior intelligence officer, tell us pleased development," said member central intelligence organisation, zimbabwe's dreaded spy agency. "only senior guys, bosses, benefit oppressive system, happy this." uncertain future army's intervention believed prompted sacking emmerson mnangagwa, war veteran, vice president. dismissal came months power struggle within mugabe's ruling zanu-pf party issue successor. {articleguid} monday, army commander constantine chiwenga gave warning military would "hesitate step in" called purge former independence war fighters zanu-pf continued. mnangagwa, ally chiwenga, leads party faction loggerheads another led mugabe's wife, grace, younger members party. speculation mnagangwa, fled zimbabwe sacking, return home lead transitional government following wednesday's events. day wore on, residents harare could heard discussing sudden turn events excitement anticipation. few, though, ready view developments "the end mugabe". "end mugabe? no, hard believe. good true," said daniel mkwananzi, accountant. "i feel old man fulfil ambition dying office." source: al jazeera news zimbabwe africa
rivalry first lady grace mugabe talks vice-president emmerson mnangagwa led military intervention zimbabwe [reuters] robert mugabe robert mugabe born february 21, 1924, known rhodesia called zimbabwe. former school teacher, seven university degrees, first came prominence waging bloody guerrilla war white colonial rulers, jailed 10 years "subversive speech" made 1964. soon release jail 1974, caused seismic shift rhodesian politics, riding wave popular outrage colonial establishment. fought rhodesia's war independence became prime minister 1980 newly independent country born conflict. new state renamed zimbabwe mugabe later assumed presidency 1987. {articleguid} married current wife zimbabwe's first lady, grace mugabe, 1996. since then, series controversial elections marred accusations vote rigging, significantly 2008 vote, allegedly lost now-prime minister morgan tsvangirai, sparking political violence human rights groups say claimed 200 lives. supporters say speaks poor; critics say become increasingly authoritarian. mugabe's rule far culminated massive economic crisis zimbabwe, one africa's richest countries. grace mugabe born 1965 south africa, grace mugabe first lady zimbabwe since married president robert mugabe 1996. 41 years younger husband known expensive shopping habits charity work taking active role country’s ruling party, zanu-pf, leads women’s division. {articleguid} extravagant lifestyle source discomfort zimbabwe many face severe economic hardship. grace mugabe said working succeed mugabe main rival presidency, vice president emmerson mnangagwa sacked husband november 2017, leading military intervention. recently sued zimbabwean newspaper, standard, published wikileaks cables, claimed took huge kickbacks diamond mines zimbabwe. university zimbabwe awarded doctoral degree sociology 2014, two months started course, sparking outrage among academics country. emmerson mnangagwa emmerson mnangagwa, former vice president zimbabwe, born 1946 went become one founders zanu-pf sixties. fought country’s war independence arrested 1965, subsequently spending next ten years prison. freed, deported zambia, studied practiced law, addition serving zanu-pf's secretary lusaka. {articleguid} became special assistant mugabe 1977, heading military civil divisions party. independence, mnangagwa became first minister national security held various positions political career, ending vice president 2013. veteran war independence powerful figure zanu-pf, seen possible successor mugabe. mnangagwa removed government mugabe november 2017 allegedly plotting incumbent leader later fled south africa. vice president commanded support army veterans war independence. zimbabwe defence forces zimbabwe defence forces made zimbabwe national army (zna), primary branch military, air force zimbabwe. november 15, army took headquarters state broadcaster zbc blocked access government offices, denied coup underway. {articleguid} zna formed independence 1980, integration former rhodesian army, zimbabwe african national liberation army, zimbabwe african people's union zimbabwe people's revolutionary army. latter three fought war independence government seventies. army's mission statement "to defend sovereignty, territorial integrity national interests zimbabwe contribute international peace security". zimbabwean government claimed 2007 foiled alleged coup involving hundreds soldiers high-ranking officers. independence war veterans veterans war independence highly influential army ruling party. mugabe regularly removed veterans posts zanu-pf recent years, replacing officials fight war. {articleguid} result, relations president veterans soured many vowed form front opposition mugabe, backing mnangagwa power struggle vice-president grace mugabe within zanu-pf. november's takeover, army generals publicly said allow someone fight independence war rule country mugabe, seemingly reference grace mugabe. right military intervention, chris mutsvangwa, head war veterans' group zimbabwe national liberation war veterans association (znlwva), issued statement, praising army "a bloodless correction gross abuse power". statement said army return zimbabwe "genuine democracy". listening post zimbabwe: mugabe's media legacy function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5563283973001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news africa robert mugabe grace mugabe zimbabwe
renderpagesvideo('5647799631001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); amnesty international says 30,000 people displaced forced, sometimes violent, evictions lucrative land past year. hundreds protesters nigeria 's commercial capital, lagos , demanding allowed return homes. al jazeera's ahmed idris reports lagos. africa nigeria human rights
president robert mugabe world's oldest national leader [philimon bulawayo/reuters] political tensions high zimbabwe fears attempted coup , denied military, president robert mugabe 's government. zimbabwe's army seized headquarters state broadcaster zbc capital harare blocked access government offices early wednesday. army spokesman confirmed safety country's 93-year-old leader - world's oldest head state. however, mugabe's whereabouts unknown following army's takeover. mugabe came power zimbabwe independence 1980 37-year rule criticised repression dissent, election rigging, causing country's economic collapse. despite health concerns growing opposition, leader ruling zanu-pf party said plans stepping down. early life mugabe born february 21, 1924, near kutama, northeast salisbury (now harare, capital zimbabwe), rhodesia. former school teacher, seven university degrees, first came prominence waging bloody guerrilla war white colonial rulers jailed 10 years "subversive speech" made 1964. {articleguid} soon release jail 1974, caused seismic shift rhodesian politics, riding wave popular outrage racist colonial rulers. married ghanaian sally hayfron, died kidney disease 1992, crossed border neighbouring mozambique launch protracted guerrilla war independence. returned rhodesia 1979 became prime minister 1980 newly independent country renamed zimbabwe. married current wife zimbabwe's first lady, grace mugabe , 1996. opposition crackdown early years rule, mugabe praised expanding social services, including building schools hospitals. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5645912570001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5645912570001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: zimbabwe’s political crisis presidential succession (2:27) pageloadedsuccessfully concurrently spearheading brutal crackdown political opposition led now-deceased nationalist joshua nkomo claimed 20,000 lives, according catholic commission justice peace. tens thousands people killed so-called "gukurahundi", suppression campaign waged north korean-trained 5th brigade predominantly ndebele regions zimbabwe. victims supporters nkomo, mugabe's fierce political opponent. nkomo founding father nationalist struggle independence zimbabwe, "gukurahundi" crackdown ended signing unity accord 1987 zanu-pf pf-zapu. mugabe assumed presidency 1987, prime minister role abolished. since then, series controversial elections critics claim rigged, including one 2008 lost prime minister morgan tsvangirai, sparking political violence human rights groups say claimed 200 lives. supporters say speaks poor; critics say become increasingly authoritarian. failures achievements growing calls opposition critics demanding mugabe step down. mugabe's rule far culminated massive economic crisis zimbabwe, one africa's richest countries. critics blame policies. mugabe empowered black zimbabweans. perhaps biggest achievement, according failure, land reform policy arguably marked beginning downfall country. {articleguid} freedom fighters independence mainly platform reclaiming land back white minority. turn century unleashed wave violent land acquisition war veterans. thousands white farmers forced out. many zimbabweans agree black majority somehow take back land. all, 75,000 hectares productive land owned white farmers make 1.5 percent population. whole land indigenisation policy conducted remains deeply dividing. land, like many african countries, emotive subject. military tensions wednesday's military intervention came recent period unrest within mugabe's ruling zanu-pf party. vice president emmerson mnangagwa , ally army chief veteran country's struggle independence, sacked november 8 mugabe showing "traits disloyalty". mnangagwa's exit, mugabe ousted one last remaining associates liberation war, stood since independence britain 1980. {articleguid} mnangagwa, fled country soon after, seen likely successor ailing president, ousting appeared pave way first lady grace mugabe. army commander constantino chiwenga said monday, november 13, military would act purges former war liberation fighters cease. war veterans, fought alongside mugabe 1970s liberation struggle spearheaded repossession white-owned commercial farms 2000s, claim mugabe betrayed revolution. ongoing purges scores mnangagwa allies widened rift mugabes various groups war veteran leaders. listening post zimbabwe: mugabe's media legacy function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5563283973001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news zimbabwe africa robert mugabe politics
mugabe 72nd un general assembly said 'president united states, mr trump; please blow trumpet' [jason szenes/epa] [epa] 37-year rule zimbabwe, robert mugabe built impressive amount controversy, mostly using colourful often hateful language. 93-year-old leader - world's oldest head state - prone rail wide range topics; homosexuality britain, barack obama donald trump. many zimbabwe wider world wondering whether mugabe remain power wednesday's takeover army , list famous quotes. imperialism "africa must revert imperialists divided it. artificial divisions we, pan-african concept, seek remove." - speech salisbury, 1962 "stay us, please remain country constitute nation based national unity." - plea white population zimbabwe zanu-pf rally, 1980 {articleguid} "only god, appointed me, remove - mdc, british. god remove me!" - election rally, 2008. mdc opposition party. "our party must continue strike fear heart white man, real enemy." - zanu-pf rally, 2002 homosexuality: "we ask, born homosexuality? need continuity race, comes woman, homosexuality. john john, no; maria maria, no. worse dogs pigs. keep pigs male pig knows female one." - zdc radio interview, 2015 "we equally reject attempts prescribe 'new rights' contrary values, norms, traditions, beliefs. gays!" - unga, 2015 britain: "britain cold, uninhabitable country small houses." - mutare rally, 2013 "we still exchanging blows british government. using gay gangsters. time pass london, gangster regime blair 'expresses dismay'." reference incident human rights campaigner peter tatchell attempted citizens' arrest mugabe visit london october, 1999 "we fought land, fought sovereignty, small independence prepared shed blood ... so, blair keep england, let keep zimbabwe." - earth summit, south africa, 2002 hitler: "i still hitler time. hitler one objective: justice people, sovereignty people, recognition independence people rights resources. hitler, let hitler tenfold. ten times, stand for." - state funeral cabinet minister, 2003 economy: "our economy hundred times better, average african economy. outside south africa, country [as good as] zimbabwe? … lacking goods shelves - all." - interview, 2007 {articleguid} jesus christ: "i died many times - that's beaten christ. christ died resurrected once." - state radio 88th birthday cricket: "cricket civilises people creates good gentlemen want everyone play cricket zimbabwe; want nation gentlemen." - widely reported quote, unclear mugabe said this. us presidents: "let mr. bush read history correctly. let realise personally representative capacity current president united states, stands 'civilisation', occupied, colonised, incarcerated, killed. much atone little lecture us universal declaration human rights. hands drip [the] innocent blood many nationalities." - unga, 2007 "i've concluded - since president obama endorses same-sex marriage, advocates homosexual people, enjoys attractive countenance - thus becomes necessary, shall travel washington, dc, get knee, ask hand." - zdc radio interview, 2015 {articleguid} "some us embarrassed, frightened, appeared return biblical giant gold goliath. return goliath midst, threatens extinction countries?" - unga, 2017 "may say united states president, mr trump, please blow trumpet. blow trumpet musical way towards values unity, peace, cooperation, togetherness, dialogue, always stood for." - unga, 2017 grooming successor: "grooming successor, inheritance? democratic party, don't want leaders appointed way. appointed properly people." - tv interview, 2016 source: al jazeera news africa robert mugabe zimbabwe
renderpagesvideo('5648332720001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); political crisis zimbabwe military president robert mugabe caused stir among zimbabweans left country past political persecution economic factors, making way neighbouring south africa. say "tired" foreigners hopeful recent developments mean finally go home. others remain sceptical believe crisis potentially bring new corrupt leaders look interests elite only. hope power transferred people they, military politicians, determine future leaders. al jazeera's tania page reports johannesburg, south africa. zimbabwe politics south africa africa
army maintains presence city centre guarding strategic sites [philimon bulawayo/reuters] harare, zimbabwe - zimbabwe entered second day military takeover president robert mugabe's house arrest local regional efforts resolving crisis way. local mediation team includes two government officials catholic priest reportedly involved talks find solution mugabe's confinement . regional dignitaries southern african development community (sadc) scheduled meet discuss brewing crisis, gathering take place neighbouring botswana sadc headquarters located. current chairman regional economic bloc, south african president jacob zuma deployed south africa's defence minister nosiviwe mapisa-nqakula state security minister bongani bongo envoys. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5648339353001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5648339353001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > zimbabwe crisis: mugabe confined home army takes control pageloadedsuccessfully pair expected hold talks president mugabe army generals thursday reinforce zuma's call "calm restraint" caution full military takeover. although many zimbabweans hopeful change mugabe's 37-year rule, people streets harare shy away commenting mugabe's house arrest. cletus mubaiwa, 29, electrical engineer, told al jazeera hoped mugabe's impasse army would resolved peacefully. "as zimbabwean wish peace, stability economic change. don't want political situation get hand serious violence could lead harassment people violations human rights like seen before," said. army maintains presence city centre guarding strategic sites remains parliament, courts, zanu-pf headquarters state broadcaster, zbc tv. tanks around courts parliament least two tanks 14 armed officers total could seen parked around courts parliament. according witnesses, yesterday, brief altercation three army officers least twenty police officers normally guard parliament. confrontation resulted detention police. police visible outside parliament hardly could seen around city center police often setup roadblocks. government offices shut yesterday re-opened today harare bulawayo, second city. shops schools open, army warned public restrict movements what's necessary operation over. army insists action coup, however, regional international community raised concern military's unprecedented move. woman walks past newspaper advertising poster street central harare [philimon bulawayo/reuters] several mugabe's top ministers, including minister finance ignatius chombo, currently detained army king george vi military barracks. zanu-pf spokesman minister information, simon k. moyo answer calls al jazeera comment state detained. zanu-pf national youth league secretary, kudzanai chipanga also held military barracks publicly apologised zimbabwe defence forces commander general, constantino chiwenga, castigating general's call mugabe stop purges within ruling party. mugabe's recent dismissal vice president emerson mnangagwa suspension several allies sparked military takeover. "i kindly request general chiwenga please sir accept apologies behalf youth league myself. still young people. still growing learning mistakes. "from big mistake learnt lot," said statement broadcast state television last night. chipanga stressed apology coerced. britain, zimbabwe's former colonial power, monitoring events closely urged peaceful outcome, warning that, event transition, power must passed one tyrant another. "nobody wants simply see transition one unelected tyrant next. one wants see that. "we want see proper, free fair elections," foreign secretary boris johnson told british parliament wednesday. follow tendai twitter: @i_amten source: al jazeera news zimbabwe africa politics
renderpagesvideo('5647637708001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); growing uncertainty zimbabwe soldiers wednesday took headquarters state broadcaster zbc blocked access government offices. army says military take over. south african president jacob zuma says talked close ally robert mugabe , told safe confined house. unfolding crisis comes amid apparent bid expand mugabe dynasty. first lady grace mugabe said eyeing vice presidency president mugabe sacked deputy, emmerson mnangagwa , ally army, november 8. al jazeera's bernard smith looks political background led military intervention . africa zimbabwe politics
soldiers policemen confrontation outside parliament wednesday police officers detained [tafadzwa ufumeli/anadolu] harare, zimbabwe - leader zimbabwe's largest opposition alliance called world's oldest sitting president, robert mugabe , voluntarily step aside country entered second day military takeover. "in interest people, mr robert mugabe must resign step immediately line national expectation sentiment," morgan tsvangirai said press conference thursday. former vice president joice mujuru - dismissed 2014 allegations plotting mugabe - declined comment president's confinement . said situation highlighted need create transitional administration oversee free fair elections southern african nation. former minister finance tendai biti echoed tsvangirai's sentiments mugabe's resignation told al jazeera time come draw line sand mugabe's 37-year rule. "mugabe cannot resist result want gone using extra-legal means remove power. unfortunate end, don't rocket scientist see it's inevitable," biti said phone interview. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5648332720001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5648332720001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: south africa, zimbabwe citizens react crisis home (2:04) pageloadedsuccessfully tsvangirai, describes "a democrat", said support power-grabbing unconstitutional means. urged swift return constitutional order creation all-inclusive national transition body, saying way current standoff. "a coup happened, cannot army de facto leader, needs urgent restoration legitimate authority zimbabwe," said tsvangirai. "under situation, longer mugabe administration, need national transitional authority build bridge old order mugabe new authorities must elected credible vote." tsvangirai's movement democratic change (mdc) party biggest challenger mugabe's zanu-pf party . 2008 violent presidential runoff , government national unity formed resolve crisis. {articleguid} although tsvangirai served prime minister mugabe, maintained always distrust two rivals. however, also said despite years experiencing political violence imprisonment hands mugabe's regime, find comfort mugabe's current predicament. "i don't take pleasure mr mugabe experiencing. never personal issue, political, meet today would animosity," told reporters. tsvangirai ruled forming another coalition government presented option end military standoff mugabe. mugabe wife grace - many analysts say set replace husband zimbabwe's president - remain confined blue roof residence, regional mediation efforts end crisis way. dignitaries southern african development community (sadc) expected meet neighbouring botswana, sadc headquartered, thursday. current chairman regional economic bloc, south african president jacob zuma , defence minister nosiviwe mapisa-nqakula, state security minister bongani bongo attended. two ministers currently talks mugabe generals state house hope reinforce zuma's call "calm restraint" well caution full military takeover. {articleguid} zanu pf spokesman minister information simon k moyo told al jazeera looking forward outcome discussions envoys. "we hope best," said brief phone conversation. although many zimbabweans hopeful change mugabe's 37-year authoritarian rule , people streets capital harare shied away asked comment house arrest. cletus mubaiwa, 29, electrical engineer, told al jazeera hoped mugabe's situation army would resolved peacefully. "as zimbabwean wish peace, stability, economic change. don't want political situation get hand serious violence could lead harassment people violations human rights like seen before," said mubaiwa. army maintains presence city centre guarding strategic sites parliament, courts, zanu pf headquarters, state broadcaster zbc tv. least two tanks 14 armed soldiers could seen parked around courts parliament. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5648339353001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5648339353001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: zimbabwe crisis - mugabe confined home army takes control (2:33) pageloadedsuccessfully according witnesses, brief altercation wednesday three army troops least 20 police officers normally guard parliament. confrontation resulted detention police. police visible outside parliament thursday, could seen around city centre often set checkpoints. government offices closed wednesday re-opened thursday harare bulawayo, second-largest city. shops schools open, army warned public restrict movements military operation over. army insists action coup, however, regional international communities raised concerns unprecedented move. several mugabe's top ministers, including minister finance ignatius chombo, currently detained army king george vi military barracks. contacted comment, military spokesman overson mugwisi told al jazeera detentions security matter unable comment further. mugabe's recent dismissal vice president emerson mnangagwa suspension several allies sparked military takeover. follow tendai marima twitter instagram: @i_amten listening post zimbabwe: mugabe's media legacy function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5563283973001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news robert mugabe zimbabwe coup africa
renderpagesvideo('5648339353001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); zimbabwe 's president robert mugabe confined home, according statement office south african counterpart, jacob zuma . south african officials said zuma spoke mugabe phone wednesday, amid military takeover government buildings zimbabwean capital, harare. "president zuma spoke president robert mugabe earlier today indicated confined home said fine. south africa also contact zimbabwean defence force (zdf)," statement read. "president zuma reiterated call calm restraint zdf ensure peace stability undermined zimbabwe ," statement continued. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5647170320001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5647170320001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: zimbabwe tensions: military seizes power, denies coup (2:48) pageloadedsuccessfully tweet sent separately south african government's official twitter account said zuma would sending special envoys country aftermath crisis. "president jacob zuma, capacity chair sadc (southern african development community), sending special envoys zimbabwe angola light unfolding situation republic zimbabwe," said. televised broadcast earlier wednesday, spokesperson zimbabwean military said mugabe family "safe sound", without providing information whereabouts. "we targeting criminals around committing crimes causing social economic suffering country, order bring justice," said major general sb moyo. zimbabwean military made move early wednesday morning, quickly taking control presidential parliamentary buildings, state tv, harare's airport. tanks blocked entrances government offices troops patrolled streets capital, many residents city decided stay away potential flare-ups violence. mugabe, 93-years-old, africa's oldest leader, taking helm country 1980. source: al jazeera news zimbabwe robert mugabe africa
ming gor uses boat cultural tours promote tanka heritage tanka identity [divya gopalan/al jazeera] hong kong - british first arrived hong kong 19th century, came across group indigenous people fishing boats asked place called. "hong kong," people replied. name stuck, culture language weren't resilient. hong kong tanka words "fragrant harbour". language spoken people call "soi seung yan", meaning "those born water". earliest inhabitants region coastal southern china . fifty-year-old ming gor one last fluent speakers tanka language. 2004, lived boat fisherman like father grandfather. stringent environmental laws government policy made difficult earn living south china sea , forcing move land family. says it's familiar story community, rapidly disappearing past decades. lisa lim linguistics professor hong kong university founder website linguisticsminorities.hk. research found discriminatory practices 18th century preserved tanka culture. people allowed marry community live onshore, lived small boats grouped together form colonies. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5568630678001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5568630678001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: hong kong - conservation group fights save indigenous culture (2:31) pageloadedsuccessfully however, added modern era posed greatest challenges preserving heritage. younger generations moved onshore, urban areas, better job opportunities easier lifestyle. historically considered lowest class chinese outcasts, tanka quick shed identity started assimilating wider cantonese community. ming gor. uses boat cultural tours promote tanka heritage promote tanka identity. "tanka fisherman low social status hong kong long history contribution society overlooked. want change tell world here." bring back hakka it's similar story hakka community, according lau chun-fat, hakka academic campaigning preserve dialects languages extinction. studying work biologist germany , returned village yuen long 1993. dismay finding nobody spoke hakka led back university pursue career hakka scholar. "my village small one, 100 inhabitants," said. "in whole village, i'm one speaks children hakka. older generation know hakka, speak children cantonese." hakka came hong kong 300 years ago settled rural new territories. hakka grandmother grandson po kat tsai village fanling, new territories [amy ip ka man/al jazeera] 1945, one four main native groups territory. changed civil war china sent million cantonese refugees across border british colony 1945 1951. also period colonial government closed village schools teaching various indigenous languages. opened new institutions taught cantonese. first day school first time heard southern chinese dialect. this, according lau, signalled shift culture. many parents felt children would better opportunities assimilated cantonese. naomi wong, 40, works trading company city lives hakka village house grew parents. 80-year-old father gets emotional asked language. told us hakka language full wisdom forgotten. daughter says generation find easier communicate cantonese. naomi group hakka friends understand language use talk parents older generation. conversation other, use cantonese. official government campaign promote preserve indigenous languages. hong kong government differentiate among various chinese ethnicities, official records document different communities. lau despondent asked efforts revive hakka language culture. "i want people know hakka existed hong kong still exists parts. know practically impossible make hakka last forever here, want make known people hakka integral part hong kong culture." naomi wong's family po kat tsai village, fanling [amy ip ka man/al jazeera] fishing boats travelling across lei yue men harbour [amy ip ka man/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news author divya gopalan divya gopalan emmy nominee, international news anchor correspondent al jazeera english. arts & culture hong kong asia pacific
mourners say good-bye beloved king ruled thailand decades [reuters] bangkok, thailand - day thais dreading arrived capital adorned mourning black, final farewell said late king bhumibol adulyadej. funeral ceremony lasts five days full buddhist hindu traditions, interspersed sound jazz classical music, written late monarch. thursday, tens thousands people streets directly outside near funeral site artisans crafted past 10 months, transforming area known sanam luang public green space elaborate collection buildings symbols king bhumibol's reign. centrepiece purpose-built crematorium towers 50 metres air. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(3925061147001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_3925061147001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: thai king credited fighting opium menace (2:10) pageloadedsuccessfully funeral taking place outside gates grand palace, king's body rested past 12 months. time, became focal point grieving thais wanting pay respects. palace says since died october last year, around 12 million people took opportunity enter hall body lay pray front royal urn. palace expecting around 250,000 people fill streets around sanam luang, number people lucky enough alongside procession strictly controlled entering area subject security checks. everyone clad black, sun beating upon them, many succumbed heat, assisted hundreds medical staff dotted around area. can't get close procession funeral site, big screens set alongside replica crematoriums large portraits king mourners lay flowers. lese-majeste controversy also proving time reflection thais far country has, hasn't, come what's around corner new king, bhumibol's son maha vajiralongkorn, ascended throne soon father's death. freedom speech become increasingly curtailed sensitive time, well hundred people jail allegedly insulting, criticising defaming monarchy - crime punishable 15 years jail count. number cases soared since military coup 2014 many believe staged ensure smooth royal transition. pictures: life thai king bhumibol adulyadej cases become extreme, even farcical, one man arrested insulting late king's dog, well-known historian charged daring question events surrounding famous battle occurred 400 years ago, involving thai king's defeat invading burmese prince. use, say abuse, so-called lese majeste laws, decades elevating promoting monarchy bangkok's elite, military palace itself, mean space overt alternative opinions royal family role thai society. offering one almost certainly result jail sentence. signs period profound change providing window experts commentators reflect life king bhumibol achievements, also question country heading. writing bangkok post day funeral, former editorial-pages editor sanitsuda ekachai wrote: "we must ask deep grief result over-dependence. time loss time also grow up. questioning status quo taking action change necessary part this." regardless one's view monarchy, one fact remains: king bhumibol adulyadej constant thailand sheer longevity throne. 70 years, cold war, domestic political upheaval, natural economic disasters. he's gone, grief mixed uncertainty. follow al jazeera's wayne hay twitter: @wayne_hay video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5236235741001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5236235741001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > thailand: footsteps king (25:00) pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news author wayne hay roving correspondent politics thailand asia pacific
north korean leader kim jong-un inspects galido outpost jangjedo defending force undated photo [kcna/reuters] idea assassinating public figure high profile enemy, remove problem, dangerously simplistic logic it. believed leader eliminated, followers, problems cause, also dissolve. h istory abounds examples political assassinations went really wrong. yet 21st century, practice assassination appears popular ever, recent examples coming north korea deaths jang song thaek (uncle kim jong-un) kim jong-nam (the half-brother north korean leader). surprisingly, rumours discussions assassination kim jong-un west. many united states started wonder, possibly preparing (or even tried, north korean accounts believed) "decapitate" north korean leadership. all, utilise practice kim jong-un currently appears use enemies remove one man order potentially avert nuclear war save millions? but, logical may seem warmongers, assassinating north korean leader good idea. man hard kill first reason assassinating kim jong-un good idea would difficult task achieve failed attempt could disastrous consequences. north korea, 120,000 square kilometres, mountains making nearly 80 percent surface, one heavily fortified countries world. country also known tapestry tunnels 6,000 8,000 subterranean facilities, making easy kim hide. addition, intense secrecy, decoys, unpredictable schedules appears efficient security service, mean times kim jong-un may appear cross-hairs far between. attempt made, failed, full nuclear anger kim jong-un could expected response. second reason assassinating north korean strongman good idea us although attempting assassinate foreign leaders times war permissible, times peace practice illegal us laws. although us started slippery slope targeted killings so-called "war terror", president gerald ford's 1976 executive order , (which came back cia's failed attempts cuban leader fidel castro) stating, "no employee united states shall engage in, conspire engage in, political assassination" still place. course president donald trump nullify executive order prepare legal ground assassination, now, attempt north korean leader's life would us law. guaranteed solution {articleguid} third reason assassination good idea kim jong-un's death means guarantees solving problem. best case scenario death kim jong-un, power would quickly grabbed safer pair hands. boris yeltsin scenario, reasonable figure emerges saves day, steering world away nuclear war ousting "problematic" leader. case modern-day north korea, evidence support optimistic ending. likely scenario that, kim jong-un "eliminated", power would pass directly one children accordance pre-agreed succession plan. either sister, kim yo-jong , wife, ri sol-ju act regent elected heir old enough take control communist de-facto monarchy. assuming would palace coup within family, success type regency succession would depend support military. course, military commanders may also try topple kim dynasty grab leadership position themselves. moment one knows actors would act assume power whether would work towards bringing end north korea's current confrontation us. alternate possibility country descending absolute chaos assassination. recent examples deaths saddam hussein muammar gaddafi show removal strongmen bring dangerous fragmentation enduring conflict destabilise regions decades ahead. final likely possibility "head snake" keeps biting minutes decapitated. situation armed response would unfold automatically accordance protocols prepared anticipation event, and/or north korean military citizens get angry us killing beloved leader start firing everything have. likely scenario, assassination would spark completely undesired outcome trigger war korean peninsula. so, safe say "cutting head snake" definitely good idea north korea. views expressed article authors' necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. inside story north korea? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5564686946001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author alexander gillespie alexander gillespie professor international law university waikato, new zealand. asia north korea war kim jong-un asia pacific
kim jong-un looks visit chemical material institute academy defence science undated photo released north korea's korean central news agency [kcna via reuters] mistake imagine potential war north korea like gentlemanly game chess, side takes turns understandings offence defence robust. misperception particularly evident two areas. first, assumed missile defences currently bristling around south korea japan protect short, medium long-range intercontinental missiles sent north korea. hopes area pinned remarkable achievements systems tracking destroying missiles . well-touted examples area include aegis terminal high altitude defence ( thaad ) systems medium-range missiles, successful interception rates 83 percent 100 percent , respectively. short-range missile defence systems, patriot, also appears improved greatly recent times. although figures sound impressive, spoiled number considerations. first, although success rate hitting short medium-range missiles appears good, success rate destroying intercontinental missiles 50 percent. second, testing conducted near perfect conditions, one target carefully tracked destroyed. third, scale deployment small. is, american ground-based midcourse defence system intercontinental missiles, 44 interceptors deployed. thaad, one battery (with 48 interceptor missiles) deployed south korea, although supplemented 16 batteries patriot missiles (each 16 launchers). {articleguid} although supported anti-missile technologies, ones forefront trying stop, best guess, 200 missile launchers 600 1000 short-range missiles maybe 100 medium long-range missiles coming north korea. expected north korea would fire great speed, deception strategy, attack, overpower trick missile defences. attack would nothing like near perfect field conditions missile testing currently conducted. north's chemical biological weapon stockpile second misperception although missiles may preferred delivery system nuclear weapons , case weapons mass destruction, namely chemical biological weapons north korea may possess. base problem although international community agreed prohibit chemical biological weapons methods warfare 1925 updated prohibitions bioweapons 1972 chemical weapons 1993, clear north korea considers bound considerations. is, although north korea signatory 1925 agreement, signatory 1993 convention, although adhered 1972 convention, fallen far behind rudimentary expectations area. short, sceptical missile defences actually achieve, expect chemical weapons part mix don't surprised bioweapons also thrown in. chemical weapons, strongest evidence possess assassination kim jong-nam vx gas malaysia . proof followed decades speculation north korea manufacturing chemical weapons . current south korean estimates suggest north existing stockpile 2 ,500 5,000 metric tonnes chemical weapons ( pdf ) . although chemical weapons also delivered missile, plane human hands, likely north korean ones would delivered 5,400 rocket launchers 4,400 artillery pieces believed possess. {articleguid} although analysts argue kim jong-un 's highly publicised official visits seemingly unimportant pesticide factories laboratories north korea signal existence covert bioweapons programme, knowledge area nothing guesswork. although appears likely north korea developing bioweapons since 1960s ( pdf ), probably understanding 13 types biological weapons (including plague, anthrax, cholera smallpox), unambiguous evidence suggesting large scale, advanced successful bioweapons programme production north korea . currently black holes knowledge regards whether north korea successfully weaponised biological material passed barriers stopped others ; whether effective delivery systems (which could missiles, drones, planes and/or human agents) whether defence measures ensure pathogens backlash population. however, scarcity information within country shrouded secrecy, continually surprised international community advances nuclear missile technology, not, circumstances, taken proof possess effective bioweapons. short, aren't fully effective defences established protect south korea, japan countries case north korea decides go war. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. upfront north korea: brink war? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5577120458001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author alexander gillespie alexander gillespie professor international law university waikato, new zealand. asia north korea war & conflict nuclear weapons asia pacific
us president donald trump boards air force one travel hawaii, way extended trip five countries asia november 3, 2017 [reuters/jonathan ernst] donald trump set arrive south korea november 7. country naturally abuzz anticipation, show important military alliance us is, especially time tense standoff north korea . foreign minister south korean ambassador washington reportedly airport greet trump wife. south korean president moon jae-in one-on-one us counterpart extravagant dinner party k-pop performances traditional music. trump also address national assembly visit us military base, camp humphreys. brouhaha trump's visit belies difficult predicament south korean government in. since taking office, trump made clear cares us interests. continue kowtowing washington would dangerous, even seoul cannot quite quit pretence honouring longtime ally, least yet. trump presidency, less year old, headache president moon, elections may promising greater engagement end hostility two koreas. took power exactly trump engaged verbal escalation pyongyang, threatening "fire fury" unilateral military action north korea. become apparent us president doesn't particularly care safety security korean people. according republican senator lindsey graham , trump said, "if thousands die, they're going die there." visit, trump also bound bring up, least privately, free-trade agreement (fta) south korea us, insisted "horrible" "job-killing" americans. washington's demand, two sides agreed early october renegotiate deal. moon opposed fta opposition six years ago, hardly position give now, considering south korean businesses benefit greatly arrangement. {articleguid} despite disagreements, moon tried sound sync us leadership. adamant show support stronger measures north korea repeatedly invoked word "pressure," says necessary bring north korea back negotiation table. government announced friday release list sanctions pyongyang, request americans. moon tried downplay looming fta renegotiation, saying august "some immediate, major crisis". like moon, south koreans really enamoured trump, though value relations us. south koreans - 78 percent, precise - confidence trump, according pew research center survey released june, similar number - 75 percent - express favourable opinions toward us even time us's likeability declining around world. separate poll , conducted last november asan institute, domestic think tank, percentage respondents said us-south korean relations would worsen jumped four times 2015 (14.1 percent) 2016 (64 percent). 2014 2016, percentage south koreans thought us military presence south korea important issue two allies nearly doubled 17.6 30. words, south koreans view trump's intentions toward korean peninsula scepticism, growing attention whether us continue guarantee south korea's security. ostensibly liberal politician rose power part movement oust corrupt conservative government, moon trapped uncaring ally electorate psychologically dependent it, knows it. discontent surfaces media talkative members circle, like special advisor moon chung-in, caused firestorm late september saying e ven us-south korea alliance falls apart, war must stopped. actually good point: south korea beg american protection us doesn't seem committed peace korean peninsula? {articleguid} knowing fundamental differences moon trump, south korean conservatives sought exploit visit occasion fan public's anxiety undermine president's popularity. opposition lawmakers conservative media hounding presidential office trump spending one night south korea spending two nights japan china. insist government slighting us president hasn't done enough win washington's favour. competing rallies, trump's visit, took place weekend, it's obvious washington left seoul choice lessen dependence us. that's administration rightly - carefully - begun working improve relations china . october 30, foreign minister kang kyung-hwa announced would additional deployment thaad, us-made missile defence system set protect south korea north korean missiles angered beijing end. also said south korea working establishing defence system. brought almost immediate relief south korean businesses suffering form unofficial sanctions imposed chinese government thaad deployment last year. november 3, moon gave interview singapore's channel news asia defined policy "balanced diplomacy". but, doubt, moon need explain trump next week's visit pivot means. trump smart, get message: show genuinely care people country, find another ally. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author se-woong koo se-woong koo co-founder publisher korea expose, online magazine. donald trump south korea north korea us & canada asia
us dismissed north korea's accusation president donald trump declared war country, calling 'absurd' [reuters] coming days, three possible triggers war north korea need carefully watched. first possible trigger declaration war north korea, especially since united states made clear declared war . idea countries would formally declare war other, commencing hostilities, relic early 20th century. although remnants practice remain, largely outdated second world war military advantages surprise japanese attack pearl harbour nazi attack soviet russia, made clear. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5588700659001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5588700659001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: north korea accuses us declaring war (1:46) pageloadedsuccessfully second world war, united nations hoped members would refrain threat use force territorial integrity political independence state , declarations war individual states would become redundant. however, north korean armed forces advanced 38th parallel june 25, 1950, without declaration war, shown vain hope was. response act aggression north korea 84th resolution ( pdf ) security council (when soviet union absent vote) defend south korea un flag leadership us. today, situation even complicated north korean rhetoric declaring war uncommon. following 2013 sanctions ( pdf ) approved security council north korea nuclear test , kim jong-un promised pre-emptive strike us nuclear weapons . followed " full war declaration statement " . part assertions north korea scrapped armistice ended first korean war 1953. show determination 2013, north korea also cut hotline enabled direct communication north south korea. although hotline reconnected months later, south korea closed joint kaesong industrial complex following kim jung-un's fourth nuclear test early 2016, north korea condemned act declaration war, cut hotline . read more: north korea tensions - latest updates cutting hotline dangerous rhetoric. hotlines prevent accidental war. south korea, hotline china , trying hotline north korea reconnected. however, line really needed one north korea washington. best practice evident since 1963 , following cuban missile crisis, two superpowers recognised necessity able talk directly, short notice, whenever required stumble nuclear war. possible detonation nuclear device second possible trigger watch north korea threat possible detonation nuclear device atmosphere pacific. although aesthetics act would shock world humanity seen nuclear airburst since done china 1980, would beginning hostilities. act would violate international environmental law, laws war peace. kim start war detonates device within someone else's territory, including ocean spaces control, american land ocean territory guam. kim start war detonates device within someone else's territory, including ocean spaces control, american land ocean territory guam. however, exploded international territory, high seas, faces different rules, australia new zealand took france international court justice ( pdf ) french atmospheric testing caused radiation pollution fall them, downwind. reason pollution global community concluded international agreement prohibiting atmospheric nuclear testing. although north korea signatory agreement, international rules ( pdf ) causing significant environmental damage nations still apply. shooting aircraft third possible trigger watch north korea threat shoot aircraft international airspace (as in, mirroring territorial sea, 12 nautical miles/22.2km land). previously 1969, north korea shoot american spy plane ( pdf ), killing 31 members aboard operating international airspace. point, president nixon respond violence due fear soviet union china would react. today, 60 times russian military aircraft flown close alaska past edge western europe past 10 years shown, matter unpleasant acts may be, planes may intercepted followed, may shot cross territorial airspace. ensure mistakes made carefully choreographed sabre rattling, certain rules need apply - primarily, planes invisible. possible, transponders radios on, (as us appears ) flight plans disclosed advance. kim decides take one american planes flying international airspace, grandfather kim il-sung earlier times, would gambling odds president trump respond violence. alexander gillespie professor international law university waikato, new zealand. research focuses laws war armed conflict. author three-volume set "a history laws war" three-volume set "the causes war". views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author alexander gillespie alexander gillespie professor international law university waikato, new zealand. north korea war & conflict united states asia pacific
latest developments tensions north korea: japan's abe vows bolster defense: friday , japanese prime minister shinzo abe pledged bolster country's defenses, calling threat north korea gravest security concern japan faced since world war ii. us says sudan cutting trade, military ties north korea : thursday, state department spokeswoman heather nauert said sudan taking step due "critical threat posed north's nuclear programme. duterte: war n korea would 'end humanity' . tuesday, rodrigo duterte predicted war north would end "nuclear holocaust" closing remarks asean summit manila. north korean soldier shot comrades defecting . south korean forces high alert possible provocations north korean soldier shot wounded comrades defected across demilitarised zone. november 5 - november 12 us-s korea launch major war drills. us south korea launched military manoeuvres involving three american aircraft carrier strike groups saturday massive show force drew anger rival north korea. russia opposes 'total embargo' . "we never supported idea total embargo north korea, like country," russia's deputy foreign minister sergei ryabkov said wednesday. north korea says sanctions hurting women, children . wednesday, north korea said working uphold women’s rights gender equality sanctions imposed major powers taking toll vulnerable families. trump arrives china. us president donald trump arrived beijing wednesday first official visit. seoul, trump called china sever relations north korea, saying: "you cannot support, cannot supply, cannot accept". trump delivers speech seoul. us president donald trump delivered speech wednesday south korean parliament. speech, trump criticised north korea "cruel dictatorship". trump also meant visit demilitarized zone (dmz) divides two koreas bad weather. additional sanctions . japan said tuesday would impose additional sanctions north korea response continuing threat posed missile nuclear programmes. anti-trump demonstrations across south korea. representatives several labour unions social movements across south korea took seoul streets tuesday protest "warmonger" trump. demonstrations also taking place front us embassy seoul. us senate targets chinese banks. us senate banking committee unanimously backed new sanctions targeting chinese banks business north korea tuesday. japan calls pressure. japanese prime minister shinzo abe said monday time exert maximum pressure north korea. abe agreed president donald trump china play bigger role getting pyongyang give weapons programmes. october 29 - november 5 trump japan stresses unity north korea. president donald trump ramped rhetoric north korea arrived japan sunday, saying united states allies prepared defend freedom "no dictator" underestimate us resolve. nato urges sanctions implementation. tuesday, nato chief jens stoltenberg urged united nations members fully transparently implement sanctions north korea, said emerged global threat able fire ballistic missiles far europe north america. trilateral meeting hawaii. senior defence officials united states, south korea japan held trilateral talks monday urged north korea walk away "destructive reckless path" weapons development, us military said statement. october 23, 2017 uk: 'military option must remain table' military option must remain table dealing north korea's nuclear program, foreign secretary boris johnson said monday. "i don't think anybody could conceivably want military solution problem," johnson said speech london. "and yet clearly... possibility kind military option... possibility must least theoretically maintained table." mattis visit south korea us defense secretary jim mattis said would talk asian allies north korea crisis caused pyongyang's "reckless" provocations, kicked week-long trip region monday meet defence chiefs philippines . mattis' trip asia, also include stops thailand south korea, comes weeks president donald trump's first visit asia. abe trump raise pressure japanese prime minister shinzo abe us president donald trump agreed work together raise pressure north korea, yasutoshi nishimura, deputy chief cabinet secretary, said. abe trump spoke telephone japanese premier's ruling coalition scored big win election previous day. abe pledges tackle crisis election victory, japan's leader pledged tackle called japan's two national crises: military threat north korea ageing shrinking population. prime minister shinzo abe said news conference committed protecting japanese people's prosperity peace contingency. "i pursue decisive strong diplomacy tackle north korea's missile, nuclear abduction issues put pressure get change policy," said. october 22, 2017 jimmy carter offers visit north korea former us president jimmy carter said would willing travel north korea behalf trump administration help diffuse rising tensions. carter, democrat president 1977 1981, said spoken trump's national security adviser lieutenant general hr mcmaster, far gotten negative response. "i told available ever need me," new york times quoted carter saying. october 21, 2017 trump visit south korea november 3, donald trump start trip take japan , south korea, china, vietnam philippines . first tour asia since taking power january. interview fox business network, trump said wants "keep things very, low key" chinese president xi jinping chinese leader emerges party congress. october 20, 2017 talks nuclear programme pyongyang plan hold talks washington nuclear programme , senior north korean diplomat said friday, declaring possessing nuclear weapons matter life death north korea. choe son-hui, director-general north american department north korea's foreign ministry, told non-proliferation conference moscow washington would "have put up" north korea's nuclear status. "this matter life death us. current situation deepens understanding need nuclear weapons repel potential attack." switzerland sanctions north korea switzerland decreed implement latest un sanctions north korea, affecting financial sector work authorisations north koreans switzerland . north koreans whose employment contracts signed september 11 exempt sanctions. new north korean workers entering state turned away, according report. joint ventures "cooperation" projects suspended january 9. russia china propose roadmap russian foreign minister sergei lavrov urged world powers friday get behind joint russian-chinese roadmap settling crisis north korea's weapons program. speaking conference non-proliferation moscow, lavrov said break-up deal iran 's nuclear program would send alarming message international security mechanisms, could impact situation korean peninsula. october 19, 2017 north korea threatens us ship north korea's official news agency described us aircraft carrier patrolling korean peninsula "primary target" said washington expect " unimaginable " attack. north korea condemned seoul washington's move mobilise nuclear strategic assets near volatile peninsula. pyongyang slammed warship manoeuvres "rehearsal war". "the us running amok introducing nose targets set primary ones. us expect would face [an] unimaginable strike unimaginable time," said statement carried official korean central news agency. "unprecedented" communication australia north korea sent letter australia's parliament, warning nuclear power cowed us president trump's threats destroy it, according copy letter published australian newspaper friday. "if trump thinks would bring dprk, nuclear power, knees nuclear war threat, big miscalculation expression ignorance," said facsimile letter, published sydney morning herald verified australia's foreign ministry. "trump threatened totally destroy dprk ... extreme act threatening totally destroy whole world." press conference sydney, australian foreign minister julie bishop said note "unprecedented" communication. "it way usually publish global messages. collective strategy imposing maximum diplomatic economic pressure sanctions north korea working. response pressure." october 18, 2017 us, korea, japan discuss north korea senior officials united states , south korea japan reaffirmed countries' commitment wednesday finding diplomatic solution threat posed north korea's rapidly expanding nuclear program. however, us deputy secretary state john sullivan stressed allies must prepared contingency. meeting south korean japanese counterparts seoul, john sullivan said us continues view diplomacy, supported pressure sanctions, primary means solving north korean nuclear problem. "our objective is, throughout campaign pressure, bring north korea negotiating table without preconditions achieve objective denuclearised korean peninsula," sullivan said news conference. clinton: threats war 'dangerous' former us presidential candidate hillary clinton said wednesday "cavalier" threats start war korean peninsula "dangerous short-sighted", urging united states get parties negotiating table. clinton also called china take "more front role" enforcing sanctions north korea aimed curbing missile nuclear development. "there need us bellicose aggressive (over north korea)," clinton told world knowledge forum south korean capital seoul, stressing need pressure north korea diplomacy bring pyongyang talks. october 17, 2017 nuclear war may break 'any moment' north korea's deputy un ambassador warned situation korean peninsula "has reached touch-and-go point nuclear war may break moment". kim in-ryong told un general assembly's disarmament committee monday north korea country world subjected "such extreme direct nuclear threat" united states since 1970s. pointed large-scale military exercises every year using "nuclear assets" said dangerous called us plan stage "secret operation aimed removal supreme leadership". "the entire us mainland within firing range us dares invade sacred territory even inch, escape severe punishment part globe," warned. october 16, 2017 'don't join us action you're safe' north korea warned countries united nations monday statement: don't join united states military action asian state safe retaliation. caution contained copy north korean deputy un ambassador kim ryong's prepared remarks discussion nuclear weapons un general assembly committee. however, kim read section loud. "the entire us mainland within firing range us dares invade sacred territory even inch escape severe punishment part globe," statement read. october 15, 2017 diplomacy continue 'first bomb drops' secretary state rex tillerson said sunday president donald trump instructed continue diplomatic efforts calm rising tensions north korea, saying "those diplomatic efforts continue first bomb drops." tillerson downplayed messages president trump previously posted twitter suggesting tillerson wasting time trying negotiate "little rocket man," derogatory nickname trump coined north korea's leader kim jong un. october 13, 2017 n. korea readies missile launch, report says north korea believed preparing launch ballistic missile ahead upcoming joint naval drill us south korea, news report said saturday, citing government source. us navy said friday us aircraft carrier lead drill coming week, fresh show force north korea tensions soar hermit state's weapons programme. move likely rile pyongyang previously responded angrily joint exercises. malaysia halts imports north korea malaysia, recently one pyongyang's closest friends, halted imports north korea, part global efforts cut funding nuclear missile programmes. malaysia buy goods north korea june july, buying $4.89m worth goods first five months year, according data department statistics. october 09, 2017 kim jong-un promotes sister kim yo-jong north korean leader kim jong-un promoted younger sister senior post one-party state, according state media. kim yo-jong became alternate member party's powerful politburo, decision-making body presided brother, official kcna news agency said sunday. promotion announced along dozens top officials meeting central committee ruling workers' party korea saturday capital, pyongyang. since inheriting power father 2011, kim placed younger sister various positions order strengthen position family within country's leadership. october 08, 2017 trump: 'only one thing work' us president donald trump said diplomatic efforts north korea consistently failed, adding "only one thing work", without elaborating further. trump engaged escalating war words north korean leader kim jong-un, trading insults amid rising tensions two countries rivals. "presidents administrations talking north korea 25 years, agreements made massive amounts money paid," trump tweeted. "hasn't worked, agreements violated ink dry, makings fools us negotiators. sorry, one thing work!," said twitter. october 03, 2017 trump: 'don't bother talking n korea' us president donald trump dismissed prospect talks north korea waste time day secretary state said united states maintaining open lines communication north korean leader kim jong-un. "i told rex tillerson, wonderful secretary state, wasting time trying negotiate little rocket man," trump wrote twitter, using sarcastic nickname kim seeming contradict top us diplomat. trump, traded insults threats kim recent weeks amid escalating tensions pyongyang's nuclear missile programmes, later tweeted white house predecessors, bill clinton, george w bush barack obama, "failed" north korea "being nice rocket man". "so would work now?" asked. october 02, 2017 egypt violated arms embargo un investigation revealed egyptian government violated international embargo trading weapons north korea. un us experts say north korea built vast network overseas clients evade international sanctions sell cheap weapons long list clients across world. october 01, 2017 north korea: 'state nuclear force' north korea's state news agency called us-led effort impose sanctions weapons programme futile, vowing country inevitably become "state nuclear force". comments sunday came korean central news agency's website uriminzokkiri us secretary state rex tillerson met talks china's top diplomats president xi jinping beijing korean nuclear crisis. tillerson proponent campaign "peaceful pressure", using us un sanctions working china turn screw regime. september 30, 2017 tillerson: us contact n korea us says open channels communication north korea "probing" whether pyongyang government ready enter talks giving nuclear weapons programme. rex tillerson, us secretary state, made remarks saturday afternoon talks china's top diplomats president xi jinping centred nuclear crisis preparations president donald trump's visit beijing november. "we probing, stay tuned," tillerson said. us looking economic squeeze north korea hopes compel country's retreat nuclear arms missile programmes. september 28, 2017 south korea's armed forces day north korea warned south korea abandon nuclear weapons programme. south korean president says reckless provocations met strong retaliation. emphasise point, ballistic missiles weapons show armed forces day. china orders close north korean firms beijing ordered north korean-owned businesses china close january, cutting foreign revenue pyongyang united nations sanctions imposed nuclear missile programmes. china's commerce ministry said thursday companies, including joint ventures chinese firms, 120 days close date un resolution adopted september 11. sanctions spare, case case basis, entities involved non-commercial activities public utility infrastructure projects generate profits. september 26, 2017 us rejects north korea war allegations 'absurd' us dismissed north korea's accusation president donald trump declared war country, calling "absurd". comments come south korea's national intelligence service (nis) said pyongyang moved bolster coastal defences relocating warplanes along east coast. regional leaders tuesday warned war korean peninsula would result "catastrophic consequences". warnings came pyongyang said monday ready defend shooting american bombers, accusing trump declaring war country. september 25, 2017 pyongyang: options table leadership north korea's foreign minister accused us president donald trump declaring war country. speaking outside un headquarters new york city monday, ri yong-ho said trump's "declaration war" means options table north korea's leadership. stating country's ultimate goal establish "balance power" us, ri said country never waver nuclear ambitions despite un sanctions. september 23, 2017 china imposes limits oil supply north korea china limiting oil exports north korea comply new sanctions imposed un security council last week, include fuel import restrictions. china's ministry commerce said statement website saturday china would limit exports refined petroleum products october 1, ban condensates liquefied natural gas immediately. china also ban textile imports north korea, ministry said. september 22, 2017 russia tells us, n korea 'hot heads' calm russia's foreign minister sergey lavrov urged "hot heads" calm down, calling escalating war words us president donald trump north korea's kim jong-un "a kindergarten fight". trump called north korean leader "madman" friday, day kim dubbed "mentally deranged us dotard" would face "highest level hard-line countermeasure history" retaliation us president saying washington would "totally destroy" asian country threatened us allies. "we calm hot heads," lavrov told reporters united nations friday, world leaders gathered week body's annual general assembly. "we continue strive reasonable emotional approach ... kindergarten fight children." pyongyang threatens h-bomb test pacific ocean north korea says may test hydrogen bomb pacific ocean us president donald trump threatened destroy country, whose leader responded promising make "mentally deranged" trump pay dearly threats. speaking new york city friday, ri yong-ho, north korea's foreign minister, said country could consider hydrogen bomb test unprecedented scale pacific ocean, south korea's yonhap news agency reported. japan, country ever suffer atomic attack, described threat ri "totally unacceptable". kim jong-un: 'deranged' trump 'pay dearly' north korean leader kim jong-un called us president donald trump "mentally deranged" said would "pay dearly" recent threats country. rare statement directly attributed north's leader, kim said friday trump "unfit hold prerogative supreme command country", describing president "a rogue gangster fond playing fire". hours later, north korea's foreign minister reportedly said country might planning test hydrogen bomb pacific ocean fulfil kim's vow take "highest-level" action united states. kim's statement carried north's official korean central news agency. responded trump's combative speech un general assembly tuesday. ri yong-ho calls donald trump threat 'dog's bark' north korea's foreign minister brushed aside us president donald trump's threat destroy country, comparing "dog's bark". trump used maiden address un general assembly tuesday warn pyongyang washington would "totally destroy" us allies attacked. arriving new york un meetings wednesday, ri yong-ho, north korean foreign minister, mobbed questions reporters trump speech replied proverb. "there saying marching goes even dogs bark," said entered hotel. "if trying shock us sound dog's bark clearly dog dream." trump signs new order expand north korea sanctions us president donald trump signed executive order allowing washington ramp sanctions north korea nuclear missile programme. move thursday came two days trump warned north korean leader kim jong-un address un general assembly us, threatened, would "totally destroy" country 26 million people. announcing executive order, trump said measure would allow sanctions "individuals companies finance facilitate trade" pyongyang. september 19, 2017 trump threatens 'destroy north korea' necessary us president donald trump threatened "totally destroy north korea" country forced defend allies, highly-combative debut speech united nations general assembly (unga). addressing world leaders representatives 193 countries gathered new york, trump tuesday warned us would forced confront north korean leader kim jong-un continued pyongyang's reckless pursuit nuclear weapons". september 18, 2017 n korea says sanctions speed nuclear programme stricter international sanctions lead north korea speed nuclear programme, pyongyang said, us chinese leaders agreed "maximise pressure" regime kim jong-un. "the increased moves us vassal forces impose sanctions pressure dprk increase pace towards ultimate completion state nuclear force," statement north korean state media said monday, using acronym country's official name, democratic people's republic korea. september 17, 2017 us: n korea 'destroyed' behaviour continues us ambassador un warned north korea would destroyed continues "reckless behaviour" forces united states allies defend attack. nikki haley, us ambassador un, said sunday un security council run options containing north korea's nuclear programme - us may turn pentagon. "we pretty much exhausted things security council point," haley told cnn's state union. haley added perfectly happy hand matter defence secretary james mattis. "we're trying every possibility have, there's whole lot military options table," said. trump takes aim n korea's 'rocket man' twitter us president donald trump referred north korea's leader kim jong-un "rocket man" - pictured taking former election rival hillary clinton golf ball. trump spoke saturday night south korea's president moon jae-in, pledging joint "steps strengthen deterrence defence capabilities maximise economic diplomatic pressure north korea", according white house. trump's account conversation, kicked unbridled salvo early morning tweets sunday, struck less diplomatic tone. "i spoke president moon south korea last night. asked rocket man doing. long gas lines forming north korea. bad!" president wrote 38 million followers. launched half dozen retweets internet memes celebrating make america great campaign theme. september 16, 2017 kim jong-un vows complete n korea nuclear programme north korean leader kim jong-un vowed complete nuclear weapons programme face strengthening sanctions inspected powerful new intermediate-range missile fired japan, according state news agency kcna. kcna said north korea's goal reaching "equilibrium" military force united states "make us rulers dare talk military option dprk". pyongyang fired second missile japan less month friday, prompting united states say military options deal north. september 15, 2017 north korea missile test angers japan, south korea world leaders condemned north korea conducted longest-ever test flight ballistic missile, calling even tougher sanctions. shinzo abe, japan's prime minister, called international community band together projectile flew northern japanese island hokkaido falling pacific ocean friday. south korea's president moon jae-in ordered military conduct live-fire ballistic missile drill. white house said us president donald trump briefed latest launch. trump wants china rein north korea. china, turn, favours international response problem. taiwan convened national security meeting, amid fears deterioration regional security north korea's latest missile launch. north korea fires ballistic missile japan north korea fired ballistic missile capital pyongyang flown northern japan. yoshihide sug, japan's chief cabinet secretary, said projectile launched 6:57am local time friday (21:57 gmt thursday) flew northern japanese island hokkaido falling pacific ocean - 2,000km east cape erimo. "japan protests latest launch strongest terms take appropriate timely action united nations elsewhere, staying close contact united states south korea," suga said . south korea's defence ministry said missile travelled 3,700km reached maximum altitude 770km - higher previous tests. ministry said south's military conducted live-fire ballistic missile drill response north's launch. september 14, 2017 north korea threatens us, japan un sanctions north korea threatened sink japan reduce us "ashes darkness" leading latest un security council sanctions imposed country. reacting un security council vote, north korea said us ought "be beaten death" spearheading penalties. september 13, 2017 n korea: us 'suffer greatest pain' sanctions north korea said us "suffer greatest pain" role bringing forth latest sanctions pyongyang. "the forthcoming measures ... make us suffer greatest pain ever experienced history," north korea's ambassador un han tae song said tuesday. wednesday, pyongyang also called sanctions "heinous provocation aimed depriving dprk legitimate right self-defence completely suffocating state people full-scale economic blockade," according statement state-run korean central news agency (kcna). dprk stands north korea's formal name, democratic people's republic korea. statement also said sanctions "verify road [north korea] chose go absolutely right strengthen resolve follow road faster pace without slightest diversion right finish over". september 12, 2017 trump: fresh sanctions n korea 'a small step' us president donald trump said tuesday latest un sanctions north korea small step nothing compared would happen deal country's nuclear programme. "we think it's another small step, big deal," trump told reporters start meeting malaysian prime minister najib razak. "i don't know impact, certainly nice get 15-to-nothing vote, sanctions nothing compared ultimately happen," said trump, vowed allow north korea develop nuclear missile capable hitting united states. korea welcomes new unsc sanctions north south korea welcomed un security council's move impose new sanctions neighbour north korea , describing "strict warning international community". country's foreign ministry said statement tuesday south korea continue strengthen cooperation international community ensure resolutions "are thoroughly implemented". "north korea accept strict warning international community continued provocations deepen diplomatic isolation economic pressure," ministry said. september 11, 2017 un security council slaps new sanctions north korea un security council unanimously adopted us-drafted resolution imposing new sanctions north korea following sixth largest nuclear test. backing china russia, council voted 15-0 monday slap ban textile exports restrict shipments oil products north korea. resolution watered-down version original us proposal. september 10, 2017 un experts: n korea recently exported $270m illegally un experts said north korea illegally exported coal, iron commodities worth least $270 million china countries including india, malaysia sri lanka six-month period ending august violation un sanctions. report, released saturday experts monitoring sanctions, said kim jong-un's government continues flout sanctions commodities, arms embargo shipping financial restrictions. september 9, 2017 us formally requests un vote north korea sanctions us formally requested un security council vote monday toughest sanctions yet north korea despite resistance china russia, pyongyang's state media calls nuclear arms buildup. washington presented draft un resolution calling oil embargo north korea, assets freeze leader kim jong-un, ban textile exports end payments north korean guest workers. diplomatic sources said russia china opposed measures whole, except ban textiles, meeting friday experts 15 security council members. september 8, 2017 north korea: 'more gift packages' coming us north korea threatened send "more gift packages" united states, days testing biggest nuclear weapon ever detonated. han tae-song, ambassador democratic people's republic korea (dprk) united nations geneva, addressed un-sponsored conference disarmament tuesday country carried sixth nuclear test. "the recent self-defence measures country, dprk, gift package addressed none us," han said. "the us receive gift packages country long relies reckless provocations futile attempts put pressure dprk," added without elaborating. putin opposes military action north korea russia's president vladimir putin criticised us diplomacy crisis renewed call talks, saying north korea would halt missile testing programme felt secure. "russia condemns north korea's exercises; consider provocation ... [but] ramping military hysteria lead nothing good. could lead global catastrophe," putin said. south korea conducts live-fire naval drills south korea's navy conducted live-fire exercise waters country's eastern coast seoul continued displays military capability following north korea's latest nuclear test. seoul's defence ministry said warships participated drills aimed retaliating potential north korean provocations. seoul says naval drills planned wednesday saturday country's southern seas. september 4, 2017 us calls un vote fresh north korea sanctions us ambassador united nations said north korea's leadership "begging war" called body's security council impose tougher measures country following powerful nuclear test date. emergency session new york, second week, nikki haley said washington circulate new sanctions resolution week, view voting next monday. us envoy urged 15-member group adopt strongest possible measures deter north korean leader kim jong-un. korea temporarily deploy four remaining thaad launchers south korea said monday temporarily deploy four remaining launchers us thaad missile defence system completion environmental assessment government. construction would carried deploy four launchers site seongju, south seoul, defence ministry said statement. currently two launchers location, former golf course. ministry specify launchers would moved onto site. un security council sets second meeting n korea blast un security council holding second emergency meeting week north korea monday powerful nuclear test explosion added another layer urgency diplomats wrestling north's weapons programmes. emergency session comes six days council strongly condemned pyongyang's "outrageous" launch ballistic missile japan. requested us, japan, france, britain south korea, security council meeting could bring additional condemnation discussion potential steps. australia calls china influence n korea australian prime minister malcolm turnbull called china bring north korea "senses" following nuclear test sunday. said china enforcing un economic sanctions north korea "there needs done given affront north korea shown china" testing sixth nuclear device sunday. turnbull told reporters canberra risk war breaking korean peninsula highest 60 years. said china, north's closest ally commercial partner, economic leverage therefore responsibility influence north korea. japan fm agrees us 'close cooperation' n korea japanese foreign minister taro kono said us secretary state rex tillerson agreed cooperate closely order exert pressure north korea united nations. "we agreed close cooperation japan united states exert maximum pressure north korea un, including adoption security council resolutions," kono told reporters phone call tillerson. korea announce approval environment report thaad system south korea's environment ministry announce monday approval environmental assessment report deployment us anti-missile defence system country, ministry official told reuters news agency. south korea said june hold installing remaining components terminal high altitude area defense (thaad) completes assessment system's impact environment. ministry hold briefing decision 06:30 gmt monday, official said. trump reaffirms commitment defend allies call abe us president donald trump japanese prime minister shinzo abe condemned phone call north korea's "continued destabilising provocative actions," white house said. trump also reaffirmed washington would defend allies "using full range diplomatic, conventional, nuclear capabilities [its] disposal". korea simulates attack north's nuclear test site south korea carried missile drill meant "strongly warn" north korea sixth nuclear test , military officials said. according state news agency yonhap, "the training came response north's sixth nuclear test ... involved country's hyunmoo ballistic missile f-15k fighter jets". military added target exercise set considering distance north's test site drill aimed practicing precision strikes cutting reinforcements. drill carried korean military, prepared us forces south korea, military statement said. september 3, 2017 us: threats 'will met massive military response' us secretary defense james mattis said threat us allies met "massive military response, response effective overwhelming". mattis said washington looking "total annihilation country, namely north korea, ... [it has] many options so". un security council meet monday n korea nuclear test united nations security council meet 14:00 gmt monday discuss north korea's nuclear test. meeting comes request us, japan, britain, france south korea, according us mission un. trump: us may stop trade countries business n korea tweet sunday, us president donald trump said us "considering ... stopping trade country business north korea". move could big impact china, key provider aid trade north, seen country holding real influence truculent neighbour. united states considering, addition options, stopping trade country business north korea. — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) september 3, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > un chief: nuclear test 'profoundly destabilising' un secretary-general antonio guterres condemned north korea's nuclear test, saying "profoundly destabilising regional security". also called country's leadership cease acts, spokesman said statement. world leaders unite condemnation north korea president donald trump reacted called "a major nuclear test" north korea, branding north "a rogue nation" whose "words actions continue hostile dangerous" united states. chinese president xi jinping russian president vladimir putin agreed sunday "appropriately deal with" latest nuclear test north korea, state news agency xinhua said. jens stoltenberg, nato's secretary-general, called north korea statement "immediately cease existing nuclear ballistic missile activities complete, verifiable, irreversible manner, re-engage dialogue international community". south korea's president moon jae-in vowed push powerful sanctions yet un security council north korea completely isolate it. shinzo abe, japan's prime minister, said pyongyang's "nuclear missile development programmes pose new level grave immediate threat" "seriously undermines peace security region". timeline: north's nuclear tests north korea confirms sixth nuclear test pyongyang confirmed sixth nuclear test reports tremors shaking country. official korean central news agency (kcna) said hydrogen bomb test sunday morning, ordered leader kim jong-un, "perfect success". trial 12pm (03:30 gmt) carried "examine confirm accuracy credibility" north korea's technology, kcna said. explained: h-bomb vs atomic bomb tremors north korea raise fears nuclear test two tremors struck north korea sunday, prompting fears pyongyang may conducted nuclear test. website us geological survey said first tremor 6.3 magnitude depth 23 kilometres. usgs earlier reported 5.2 magnitude depth zero kilometres. trump, abe discuss 'growing threat' north korea us president donald trump spoke prime minister shinzo abe japan discuss "growing threat" posed north korea, carried two intercontinental ballistic missile tests july. "the two leaders reaffirmed importance close cooperation united states, japan, south korea face growing threat north korea," white house readout call said. specify whether two leaders spoke pyongyang claimed via state news agency developed hydrogen bomb loaded new missile. north korea says missile-ready hydrogen bomb north korea said developed advanced nuclear weapon "great destructive power" loaded onto intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm). north's official kcna news agency sunday showed kim jong-un inspecting said hydrogen bomb loaded new icbm. skepticism claim experts pyongyang's assertion mastered hydrogen technology. september 2, 2017 trump, moon pledge strong diplomatic pressure n korea us president donald trump south korean president moon jae-in pledged continue apply strong diplomatic economic pressure north korea, white house said statement. two leaders spoke phone friday also agreed revising bilateral missile treaty. treaty currently caps development south korea's ballistic missiles range 800km payload weight 500kg. august 29, 2017 un condemns missile tests un security council unanimously condemned north korea's firing ballistic missile japan "outrageous" threat demanded country launch missiles abandon nuclear weapons programmes. statement, security council said "vital importance" north korea take immediate, concrete actions reduce tensions called states implement un sanctions north korea . hwasong-12 flies japan north korea fired ballistic missile flew japan plunging northern pacific ocean, step termed japanese prime minister " grave threat". launch appeared first cross japan since 2009 comes amid ongoing annual military drill carried united states close ally region, south korea . august 26, 2017 missile launch fails three north korea short-range ballistic missiles failed saturday, temporary blow pyongyang's rapid nuclear missile expansion, us military officials said. us pacific command said statement two north korea's missiles failed flight unspecified distance, another appeared exploded immediately. added missile posed threat us territory guam, towards north korea previously warned would fire missiles. august 22, 2017 n korea vows 'merciless retaliation' drills north korea tuesday greeted start annual us-south korean military drills fiery threats, threatening "merciless retaliation" exercises country claims invasion rehearsal. north korea's military routinely responds us-south korean exercises. tuesday's threat came top us generals, including harry harris, commander us forces pacific, visited south korea . august 21, 2017 us, korea drills begin us south korean troops begun military drills amid heated warnings north korea exercises worsen tensions region. ulchi freedom guardian drills, began monday, largely computer-simulated war games. exercise brings together many 50,000 south korean soldiers approximately 17,500 us service members simulation war korean peninsula. august 20, 2017 n korea slams us-south drills north korea warned us "pouring gasoline fire" conducting annual war games south korea amid heightened tensions north korea us. ulchi freedom guardian military exercises involving thousands american south korean troops begin monday. north korea views drills highly provocative rehearsal invasion. august 18, 2017 n korea 'fails' south's moon north korea's state media gave south's president moon jae-in "fail" grade friday first 100 days office, dismissing proffered olive branches "hypocrisy". moon, elected replace impeached president park geun-hye , came office may since deal tensions north korea's missile nuclear programmes. august 17, 2017 moon: war south korea's president moon jae-in ruled "war korean peninsula" considering sending special envoy north korea talks pyongyang stops missile nuclear tests. moon's comments thursday, marking 100 days office, come amid increased tensions united states north korea following pyongyang's warning might send missiles waters near us territory guam. august 16, 2017 un: time 'dial rhetoric' un secretary-general antonio guterres said time "dial rhetoric dial diplomacy" north korea , offering help broker talks parties involved dispute. "my good offices always available - conveyed message yesterday representatives six-party talks," guterres said wednesday amid growing tensions korean peninsula since pyongyang conducted ballistic missile tests last month. "the solution crisis must political. potential consequences military action horrific even contemplate." n korea holds fire guam kim jong-un ordered army ready launch make decision military action. kim said us make right choice "in order defuse tensions prevent dangerous military conflict korean peninsula". visit korean people's army strategic force marks kim's first public appearance two weeks. august 15, 2017 china calls de-escalation china warned united states north korea "hit brakes" threats actions, work towards peaceful resolution dispute. foreign minister wang yi, phone conversation russian counterpart sergey lavrov tuesday, said two countries work together contain tensions. russia china permit party "stir incident doorstep", said. august 13, 2017 'nothing imminent' standoff n korea cia director mike pompeo offered assurances "nothing imminent" us standoff nuclear-armed north korea said would surprised pyongyang conducts another missile test. asked worried people be, pompeo told fox news sunday: "there's nothing imminent today. make mistake it. increased chance nuclear missile denver serious threat." august 13, 2017 pastor arrives canada canadian pastor imprisoned two years north korea arrived back home. hyeon lim, 62-year-old south korean-born canadian citizen, convicted sentenced 2015 allegedly trying use religion destroy north korean system helping us south korean authorities lure abduct north korean citizens. hyeon's release came nearly two months us college student otto warmbier died shortly released north korea coma. warmbier sentenced 15 years hard labour march 2016 accused stealing propaganda poster. august 12, 2017 china urges trump change rhetoric chinese leader xi jinping urged us president donald trump saturday avoid rhetoric could inflame tensions north korea escalating war words raised global alarm. xi made plea phone call hours trump escalated warnings north korea, saying would "truly regret" taking hostile action us . china's foreign ministry said xi urged trump avoid "words deeds" would "exacerbate" already tense situation, exercise restraint, seek political settlement. august 11, 2017 beijing's stance north korea chinese state-run newspaper suggested beijing would "stay neutral" north korea attacks first conflict united states , despite mutual defence pact asian allies. however, added: "if us south korea carry strikes try overthrow north korean regime change political pattern korean peninsula, china prevent so." 'tension could lead catastrophe' new military conflict north korea would likely escalate use nuclear weapons, bringing catastrophic casualties seen since world war ii , defence officials analysts say. north korea upped ante saying would complete plans mid-august fire four intermediate-range missiles japan land near us pacific. trump escalates threats president donald trump warned kim jong-un's government "get act together" face extraordinary "trouble", suggested earlier threat unleash "fire fury" north korea mild. "maybe statement wasn't tough enough," trump said, latest us salvo escalating exchange threats nuclear-armed nations. august 10, 2017 guam governor warns north korea "any type attack successful time attack guam considered attack united states met overwhelming force," guam's governor eddie calvo told al jazeera. people guam woke thursday another pointed threat pyongyang, vowed complete plan attack waters near island mid-august. august 9, 2017 pentagon warns conflict initiation us defence secretary james mattis responded north korea's threat targeting us pacific territory guam missiles, saying pyongyang's move would lead "the end regime destruction people". mattis said statement wednesday north korea "would lose arms race conflict initiates". "the dprk must choose stop isolating stand pursuit nuclear weapons," said, using north's official name, democratic people's republic korea. earlier wednesday, spokesman korean people's army said statement carried north korea's state-run kcna news agency guam attack plan would "put practice multi-current consecutive way moment" leader kim jong-un made decision. 'threat new nuclear attack growing' fear another nuclear bomb attack growing 72nd anniversary us atomic bombing nagasaki, japan , city's mayor said, apparently referring north korean nuclear threat region. tomihisa taue urged nuclear states abandon weapons criticised japan's government taking part global efforts towards nuclear ban. taue also criticised prime minister shinzo abe's government said empty promises working achieve nuclear-free world. n korea threatens missile attack guam "north korea best make threats united states," said stern-looking trump , seated arms crossed wife beside him, golf course bedminster, new jersey. "they met fire fury like world never seen." north korea said "carefully examining" plan attack us pacific territory guam missiles, hours trump's comments. spokesman korean people's army, statement carried north korea's state-run kcna news agency, said attack plan "put practice multi-current consecutive way moment" leader kim jong-un makes decision. another statement, quoting different military spokesman, north korea also said could carry pre-emptive operation us showed signs provocation. august 7, 2017 north korea rejects sanctions sanctions passed weekend "violent violation sovereignty", pyongyang said statement carried official korean central news agency, adding would take "righteous action" return. north korea said would negotiate nuclear arms threatened us. china , close ally north korea, also voted favour sanctions. several asian foreign ministers, us secretary state rex tillerson sergey lavrov, russian foreign minister, currently gathered philippine capital, manila, asean regional summit. august 6, 2017 un sanctions security council unanimously adopted us-led resolution, bans mineral seafood exports worth $1bn. united states , china, japan south korea welcomed new un sanctions. japan said time exert "effective pressure" pyongyang rather pursue dialogue. august 4, 2017 us unveils new un sanctions united states presented un security council draft resolution toughening sanctions north korea , aiming deprive pyongyang $1bn export revenue, council diplomat said. council expected vote saturday measures include ban exports coal, iron iron ore, lead lead ore, well seafood cash-starved state. us negotiating measures china , north korea's main trading partner ally, since pyongyang launched first intercontinental ballistic missile july 4. source: al jazeera news north korea war & conflict asia pacific
chinese premier li keqiang [5th left] met leaders asean manila monday [reuters] association southeast asian nations (asean) china agreed begin talks regional guidelines south china sea major breakthrough long-disputed territory. statement issued late monday, robespierre bolivar, spokesman philippine department foreign affairs, said neighbouring countries would "commence negotiations substantive effective code conduct" based framework established august. leaders asean - well powers united states , china, japan , india - meeting manila last two days. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(4927174120001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4927174120001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: china accused hostile south china sea (2:32) pageloadedsuccessfully 15 years, 10-member asean bloc struggled reach deal dominant neighbour, china, leading several diplomatic skirmishes disputed islands territory resource-rich area. bolivar say talks would begin, said philippines would issue separate statement regarding agreement. draft statement released media said, "while situation calmer now, cannot take current progress granted." statement said "important cooperate maintain peace, stability, freedom navigation over-flight scs [south china sea], accordance international law". "it collective interest avoid miscalculations could lead escalation tensions." china claims south china sea, one busiest shipping routes world. asean member nations malaysia , philippines, vietnam , brunei, well taiwan also claim overlapping parts area. code conduct would serve guideline competing claimants sea vessels aircraft pass territory without dispute. 'peace confrontation' philippine president rodrigo duterte , hosted 50th asean summit, said instead highlighting region's differences china, countries "be friends". "the hotheads would like us confront china rest world many issues," said one asean events sunday. "the south china sea better left untouched; nobody afford go war. ill afford violent confrontation." duterte's predecessor, benigno aquino, accused china building "illegal" structures reclaiming sandbars middle south china sea, igniting long-standing diplomatic face-off manila beijing. july 2016, international tribunal hague ruled favour philippines territorial dispute china. duterte downplayed ruling said philippines could afford go war powerful neighbour. also revealed recently philippine chinese navies another confrontation structures built manila one islands within exclusive economic zone. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5616271601001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5616271601001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: china next global leader? (25:00) duterte, however, ordered philippine military "pull out" area, prompting critics say sacrificing country's sovereignty. separately, vietnam china also involved tense standoff paracels islands johnson reef. monday, opening asean summit, duterte skirted south china sea issue instead focused rise "terrorism violent extremism" region. "terrorism violent extremism endanger peace, stability, security region threats know boundary," said. "piracy armed robbery seas put dent growth disrupt stability regional global commerce. menace illegal drug trade continues endanger fabric society." upfront south china sea: world's next big war? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5169915578001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news south china sea philippines china asia pacific
renderpagesvideo('5644109743001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); us president donald trump holding meetings annual association southeast asian nations (asean) summit philippines’ capital manila counterparts – including president rodrigo duterte . white house duterte's spokesman gave conflicting accounts whether two discussed human rights met sidelines international summit monday. trump said "great relationship" duterte, white house official said human rights got brief mention. spokesman duterte said mention human rights extrajudicial killings conversation. harry roque, duterte's spokesman, told news conference philippine president explained anti-drugs policy length trump, "seemed appreciative efforts". al jazeera's jamela alindogan reports manila. asia pacific philippines politics
renderpagesvideo('5648747874001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); cambodia's supreme court dissolved country's main political opposition party. cambodia national rescue party denies accusations plotting overthrow government. opposition party expecting dissolution already ceased function - leader kem sokha arrested, many senior members hiding exile vice president mu sochua. move gives prime minister hun sen clear run next year's general election. al jazeera's rob mcbride reports phnom penh. asia pacific cambodia politics
foreign buddhist monk stopped police forces barricade set one main avenues access supreme court [omar havana/al jazeera] supreme court cambodia dissolved cambodia national rescue party (cnrp), popular opposition party country. ruling thursday, delivered judge also member ruling cambodian people's party (cpp), barred 118 members opposition politics five years. "today marks end true democracy cambodia," said cnrp vice president mu sochua, fled cambodia early october. decision seen predetermined, cambodian prime minister hun sen saying wednesday "i dare bet life" cnrp outlawed. sen publicly encouraged cnrp legislators defect party supreme court announced decision. dissolution main opposition party seen end cambodia's democracy. policemen allow journalists enter barricaded area set near supreme court case hearing dissolution cnrp opposition party [omar havana/al jazeera] 'immediate steps reverse course' "dissolving main opposition party, coupled heavy-handed crackdown media civil society, certainly looks like move dictator - frightened one," said charles santiago, member malaysian parliament chair asean parliamentarians human rights. "cambodia's future depends whether ruling party prepared take immediate steps reverse course." large perimeter surrounding supreme court capital phnom penh sealed patrolling police military. reporter phnom penh, asked remain nameless safety concerns, told al jazeera never seen heavy police presence capital, lived roughly decade. decision latest series moves main opposition party. kem sokha, leader cnrp, jailed early september charges treason . cambodian authorities allege sokha colluded us topple government. charge comes 2013 video sokha allegedly says us assisted planning political career. charge carries sentence 15 30 years. former cnrp leader sam rainsy fled france 2016 charged defamation accusing sen administration planning death prominent political commentator activist kem ley. rainsy convicted defamation year supreme court upheld conviction earlier month. large perimeter surrounding supreme court sealed [omar havana/al jazeera] source: al jazeera news cambodia politics asia pacific
renderpagesvideo('5648527779001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); china started offensive fuel diesel cars. research shows one-third air pollution china comes petrol diesel cars. that's government recently decided traditionally fuelled cars thing past. world's largest emitter greenhouse gasses wants nearly 200 million car owners move electricity near future. strategy: huge incentives producers buyers. al jazeera's step vaessen reports beijing, china. environment china asia pacific
north korean soldiers watch south's side 'truce village' panmunjom demilitarised zone [file: jung yeon-je/afp/getty images] south korean forces high alert possible provocations north korean soldier shot wounded comrades defected across demilitarised zone. rare defection occurred monday along joint security area (jsa) policed south north's militaries, soldiers staring face-to-face heavily fortified border divides koreas. gunfire rang south korean troops found bleeding north korean soldier - dressed combat uniform unarmed - side. taken helicopter nearby hospital treatment. south's soldiers return fire. korea joongang daily reported north korean shot shoulder elbow. condition remains unknown. {articleguid} "in afternoon today, north korean soldier defected guard post north korean side jsa towards side military took him," yonhap news agency quoted unidentified military official saying. "the military raised alertness north korean military's possible provocations maintaining full readiness posture," official added. yonhap described monday's incident "a rare case" north korean troops stationed along demilitarised zone known loyalty pyongyang. 1950-53 korean war - south backed united states north supported china - ended ceasefire, peace treaty, meaning conflict technically still ongoing. us still 28,500 troops stationed south korea . {articleguid} major military exercises involving three american aircraft carrier attack groups seven south korean warships tense peninsula wrap tuesday. massive military build-up led angry response north korea, accused alliance planning first attack communist country. inside story us try denuclearise north korea force? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5392837586001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news north korea south korea military asia pacific
protesters hosed water cannon clash police rally us president donald trump, attending association southeast asian nations (asean) summit. reuters [reuters] riot police used water cannon sonic alarms repel hundreds protesters shouting anti-donald trump slogans sidelines major summit manila monday. colourful effigies us president, including one four arms shape nazi swastika, carried streets philippine capital. likeness philippine president rodrigo duterte peeked behind figure, two leaders readied sit formal talks less three kilometres away. protesters carried placards read "trump go home" "ban trump #1 terrorist". police said nearly 2,000 people rallies. met riot police - wearing flak jackets carrying rifles - fired water cannon sounded high-pitched alarms. least six police officers injured melee, afp reporter scene said. "they hit us wooden sticks. one colleagues hit face rock," police officer ramon dumagat said, arms covered reddish welts. rights groups called trump speak duterte's drugs war, seen police suspected vigilantes kill thousands people 16 months power. one-time property magnate, final stop tour asia , far shown nothing warmth strongman leader boasted personally killing people. satur ocampo, former communist rebel leader ex-congressman among demonstrators, told afp little hope trump would raise drug war critics say could amount crime humanity. "they think alike," told afp. "he let trump sit beside (sunday evening's) banquet, gave place honour." association southeast asian nations hosting two separate events monday tuesday manila. also include china , japan, russia, south korea, india , canada, australia new zealand , well united states . rising threat islamic state iraq levant ( isil , also known isis) group across southeast asia, efforts pressure north korean leader kim jong-un abandon nuclear ambitions, top agenda items. source: afp news agency philippines donald trump rodrigo duterte asia pacific
st paul's cathedral melbourne [reuters] australia's same-sex marriage poll results due week, conservatives asking protections parents, school teachers businesses continue defend "traditional understanding marriage". government pledged hold parliamentary vote legalise gay marriage end year nationwide survey, held decade political wrangling, return "yes" results announced wednesday. divisions within conservative governing coalition protect rights people oppose same-sex marriage threatens derail timeline. draft bill drawn liberal senator dean smith legalise gay marriage contained exemptions allow religious organisations refuse conduct same-sex marriages. bill received bipartisan support. monday another liberal party senator, james paterson, unveiled rival bill would protect religious entities also parents, school teachers, charities businesses oppose gay unions. "if wrong force priest participate same-sex wedding beliefs, wrong force florist photographer too," wrote australian newspaper. paterson supports same-sex marriage describes religious "agnostic", insisted values gay marriage opponents need respected. said bill would also allow parents children "opt classes conflict values". "this upholds right parents control moral religious education children," added. paterson said would try reconcile bill put forward smith. opposition labor party, backed smith's bill, denounced paterson's proposal "delaying tactic opponents marriage equality". "are really saying, australia today, refuse serve someone they're gay? refuse bake cake drive car? honestly, bridge far," said tanya plibersek, deputy labor chief. equality advocates also slammed paterson bill aimed curtailing australia's discrimination laws. "australians voting make country fairer equal place, take us back time people denied service shop," anna brown equality campaign said statement. turnout controversial survey reached almost 80 percent voting closed last week, polls indicating 'yes' vote imminent. conservative government chose unusual approach poll - voluntary non-binding postal vote - election promise national plebiscite twice rejected parliament's upper house, senate. source: afp news agency religion politics australia asia pacific
renderpagesvideo('5647456034001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); us secretary state rex tillerson called "credible impartial" investigation rohingya refugee crisis . described happened rohingya hands myanmar's security forces "horrific". said stood next myanmar's de-facto leader aung san suu kyi , called peaceful solution. al jazeera's scott heidler reports capital, naypyitaw. asia pacific myanmar human rights
sharmeen obaid-chinoy oscar documentary, girl river: price forgiveness 2016 [reuters/mike blake] social media pakistan uproar. doctor provided emergency care woman sent unsolicited friend request facebook hospital visit. sister tweeted it, calling harassment. story wouldn't normally attracted much attention woman tweeting two-time oscar winner sharmeen obaid-chinoy. tweeted unsolicited facebook request, doctor treated sister suspended. ensuing backlash obaid social media networks subsided days now. ever doubt misogynist nature online trolling pakistan, attacks film-maker marked new high online hate women. two things seem particularly unforgivable obaid's case: one, dared cause man "nothing wrong" lose job; two, made fame "smearing" pakistan's image. reading comments tweets online, one could feel exasperation men trying explain friend request could possibly consequence "informal conversation", "misunderstanding" something initiated woman; man given chance even breathe explain himself. wonder, many men hearing story got scared immoral behaviour could punishable? "innocent" comments actions towards women work, streets, public transport, bazaars, etc could indeed harassment? realising that, rushed phones laptops defend "right" without consequences? unsurprisingly, facebook youtube got flooded videos men condescendingly explaining exactly constitutes harassment obaid her, pakistani women. others accused harassing doctor tweeting incident. obaid also attacked famous; all, viewed woman became successful "presenting negative image" pakistan. oscar-winning short documentaries tackle topics acid attacks honour killings women. "the pantaloon pakistan taken off, popular sharmeen gets," seems favourite sentence many social media users commenting issue; "taking pantaloon" (pants) urdu means airing someone's dirty laundry. one popular video tens thousands views gentleman schooling obaid abuse influence celebrity while, course, belittling professional achievements: "making 2 4 documentaries big deal … doctor harassed." man also indignant obaid's use #pakistan tweets incident. {articleguid} backlash, course, encouraged trolling. facebook page posted video called "sharmeen triggered - trigger (harass) sharmeen obaid chinoy", showing visuals searching profile facebook adding friend. twitter one user vowed keep attacking obaid sister suspended doctor allowed go back work declared going send friend requests many women wanted to. obaid question solidarity amid male-dominated trolling spree, also women chose join in; many agreed even adopted chauvinistic commentary. "sharmeen tout dirty fly. trying seek fame tweets," one female commentator claimed. also women men taken opportunity talk consent means doctor, unethically using medical records look obaid's sister facebook, wrong. thoughtful debates sexual discrimination feminism coming incident, also degree scepticism within progressive circles. commentators called obaid opportunist attention-seeker, recirculated video one acid attack survivors documentary accusing promising financial reward participation delivering it. critics also pointed upper-class women, obaid sister privileged easily able obtain justice perceived slights. fact people disagree obaid's politics question work ethics mean cannot express solidarity sister. harassment women harassment, whether victims rich poor, ethical public work not. women, victims gender-based violence aggression, questioned work ethics? protest violation one's body come "certificate purity"? feminist solidarity process choice. able stand women agree politically share class background with. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. 101 east pakistan: killing honour function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5354413702001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author rabia mehmood rabia mehmood independent journalist researcher based pakistan. @ rabail26 women's rights asia pakistan social media
peak, sit-in attended 2,000 demonstrators, civil administration officials say [asad hashim/al jazeera] islamabad, pakistan – hundreds supporters conservative leader, many armed sticks, continue block main entrance pakistani capital, demanding resignation federal law minister strict adherence country's blasphemy laws. led khadim hussain rizvi, leader tehreek-e-labbaik pakistan political party, protesters' sit-in major highway entered sixth day monday. demonstrators, number 2,000 peak times, entered islamabad last week, protesting slight change country's electoral law, saw term softening state's position ahmadi muslims. muslim parliamentarians pakistan required declare consider members ahmadi sect non-muslim, prophet "an imposter". electoral reform bill changed wording declaration "i believe" "i solemnly swear", rizvi supporters deemed unacceptable. bill amended return original wording october 5, days first passed. rizvi's supporters, however, demanding federal law minister zahid hamid, consider responsible change, fired face criminal charges. government repeatedly said change wording "a clerical error" . protest marks latest challenge embattled pml-n government, saw leader nawaz sharif disqualified prime minister july since fighting decision political legal fronts. rizvi's tehreek-e-labbaik pakistan party capitalised leader's reputation staunch defender country's strict blasphemy laws, dictate mandatory death penalty found insulting islam's prophet. recent years seen increasing expansion widely considered "blasphemy". least 73 people murdered alleged blasphemy since 1990, according al jazeera tally. party managed secure third place recent by-election eastern city lahore, heartland ruling pml-n party. also delivered strong showing another by-election northwestern city peshawar, bagging 7.6 percent vote. negotiations force islamabad virtual lockdown since protesters entered city, camping intersection major highway leading city. government deployed many 1,800 police personnel secure entry exit points near protest, well blocking access city's government quarter using cargo containers. "it government's fault people facing inconvenience," said faisal javed, 23, travelled town toba tek singh, 300km south capital, attend protest. "we stay long [rizvi] here." members government civic administration say focused ending standoff via negotiations, clear resolution achieved. "the government clear one thing: accept demand according either constitution law," talal chaudhry, minister state interior ministry, told al jazeera. chaudhry said government preferred use force protesters, would hesitate needed. "if want thin remove there, it, pakistan already fighting war religion centre, want situation biggest religious sect [a part rizvi represents] feels victimised," told al jazeera. "of course cannot allow go unlimited period," said mushtaq ahmed, senior civic administration official. 'hang publicly' anger protest palpable. "why calling qadianis brothers sisters?" demanded azhar rizvi, 22, manning protesters' barricades entrance sit-in, using derogatory term ahmadis. "every [ahmadi] publicly hanged, front everyone!" nearby, group children shouted "labbaik, labbaik ya rasool allah", slogan signifying solidarity islam's prophet, pedestrians braving barricades cross islamabad foot. sit-in site covered dozens tents rugs. truck lined speakers makeshift stage sits centre flyover protesters occupied, rizvi often addresses charged crowd. monday morning, volunteers handed cakes protesters, lined orderly queues receive breakfast. volunteer hands cakes sit-in attendees spent night camped major highway [asad hashim/al jazeera] "we [law minister] zahid hamid punished," said muhammad abbas anjum, 30, seminary teacher travelled 240km sheikhupura attend protest. "we want punished according law land." even uttered words, however, cry went among dozens protesters around him. "gustaakh-e-rasool ki ek hi saza: sar tan se judah, sar tan se judah!" "there one punishment dishonouring prophet: remove heads bodies!" asad hashim al jazeera's web correspondent pakistan. tweets @asadhashim . source: al jazeera news islam religion pakistan asia
filmmaker sanjay leela bhansali roughed members karni sena set padmavati earlier year [michel euler/the associated press] new delhi, india - bollywood movie padmavati centre political storm india protests dominant rajput caste group western state rajasthan. period drama set 14th century enraged rajput group want film banned allegedly "disrespecting sentiments community". facing election next year, state government, led right-wing bharatiya janata party (bjp), thrown weight behind caste group holds considerable political social clout. legislators requested federal government ban film, main opposition, congress party, equivocal stand. {articleguid} rajput groups, like karni sena (karni army), want film theatres, alleging film might distort historical facts rajput community. "you see, matter concerning asmita [honour], can't let anyone besmirch honour," karni sena spokesperson vijendra singh kalyanvat told al jazeera. "alauddin khilji looter, tyrant, terrorist. queen, rani padmini, embraced jauhar [self-immolation] restore dignity pride community. "we won't let filmmaker foreign funding make film shames us, karni sena never let happen. film banned," kalyanvat told al jazeera without providing proof allegations film's funding. historians point protagonist, padmini, portrayed film fictional character, historical accounts proving existence. 'misuse fiction history' movie adaptation padmavat, epic poem written 16th century poet malik muhammad jayasi. protagonist novel, originally awadhi language, hindu queen padmini jumped fire "to save honour" medieval muslim king alauddin khilji. ancient, now-outlawed practice "sati', rajput women burned death men defeated battles avoid taken victors. professor aditya mukherjee centre historical studies jawaharlal nehru university (jnu) calls protests "absurd". {articleguid} "in contemporary period, mention event, accounts padmavati amir khusrau, prolific writer era courtier alauddin khilji. misuse fiction history. historical evidence padmavati event - story poet's imagination," mukherjee told al jazeera. "manufacturing hurt sentiments clearly eye politics", said. film, slated release december 1, dogged protests since inception. tuesday, 50 karni sena activists vandalised cinema hall rajasthani city kota protest screening teaser controversial film. film's sets vandalised once, filmmaker sanjay leela bhansali roughed earlier year jaipur, state capital. media critic vineet kumar says important support filmmakers' right creative expression. "we continuously merge history, imagination, mythology folklore. accepted infusion mythology history, accepting imagination cinema? religion based imagination, folklore based imagination, can't cinema?" told al jazeera. censoring sexually explicit politically sensitive content new india, neither confined bjp. 1975, aandhi (storm), film based life congress leader indira gandhi allowed full release congress government. congress party also banned kissa kursi ka (tale throne), 1977 satire indira powerful son sanjay gandhi. recent years, censors attempted thwart release bollywood thriller drug trafficking, udta punjab, ahead elections state. increasing censorship earlier year, lipstick burkha, film four women, blocked country's censor board, central board film certification (cbfc), said "lady-oriented". ban successfully challenged. movies faced censorship recently include tamil film, mersal, documentary delhi chief minister arvind kejriwal, well documentary nobel laureate amartya sen. {articleguid} protests films campaigns purge bookshelves schools works say abusive hinduism - represents wider shift towards hindu nationalism. padmavati teaser released last month, media critics questioned portrayal khilji, saying fits recent pattern demonisation muslim rulers. "depiction alauddin khilji padmavati grossly incorrect reflects poor research part filmmaker", wrote chandni sengupta, teaches history amity school liberal arts haryana state. professor mukherjee fears controversy veering towards hindu-muslim issue. "the whole padmavati narrative built around hindu-muslim conflict exist time. hitherto unknown groups suddenly woken protect honour hindus portray muslims perpetrators evil," mukherjee says. ruling bjp says wants film completely banned postponed till local elections gujarat, home state prime minister narendra modi . indian film industry, world's largest ticket sales, tenterhooks. filmmaker groups announced silent protest outside film city gates mumbai - india's financial hub home bollywood. "it's appalling, it's absolutely appalling. gotten into? reached nation? regressed," actor deepika padukone, plays padmavati film, said tuesday, referring calls ban. film still waiting go-ahead cbfc. "padmavat (the source film padmavati ) epic poem, speaks all-pervasive love," media critic kumar says. "jayasi, poet, wrote era wars conquests, wanted harp power love, away material greed. paradoxical work retelling become source hate speech today." al jazeera correspondent private bollywood function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5522231582001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news india arts & culture asia media
renderpagesvideo('5644071319001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); almost week indian capital choked toxic smog. hospital admissions spiked. authorities taken extraordinary measures improve air quality. indians say plaguing delhi years. want government leaders act. al jazeera's mereana hond reports. pollution environment india asia
taliban isil, largely made former taliban fighters, war government [mohammad ismail/reuters] suicide attacker killed least nine people, detonating vest near political gathering afghan capital, kabul, officials confirmed. kabul police spokesman abdul basir mujahid told al jazeera attacker stopped entrance hall, usually used weddings, detonated weapons "disrupt political gathering way inside". "the dead included seven policemen rest civilians," mujahid told al jazeera. supporters atta mohammad noor, governor northern province balkh, holding event inside hall time explosion. health ministry spokesman ismail kawoosi told al jazeera least five people wounded transferred city's emergency hospital. islamic state iraq levant ( isil , also known isis) group claimed responsibility attack. taliban denied involvement. explosion latest wave violence killed hundreds civilians afghanistan 2017. source: al jazeera news asia afghanistan war & conflict politics isis
renderpagesvideo('5645456158001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); millions kyrgyz uzbek citizens enjoying improved relationship countries years frozen diplomacy. families separated politics joyfully reunited recently reopened dostyk border; years, hadn’t able see without painful bureaucratic process get permission travel. two presidents came together recently groundbreaking meeting led resolution 85 percent border disputes two countries promises enhance cooperation many fronts. development follows death uzbek president islam karimov last year coming power reform-minded successor. al jazeera's robin forestier-walker reports karasu, kyrgyz-uzbek border. asia kyrgyzstan politics
renderpagesvideo('5643908429001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); rohingya refugees fled bangladesh amid fears violence, torture, rape. small group 600,000 rohingya sought refuge bangladesh, many repeating stories rape murder carried them. escape myanmar fraught danger frustration build makeshift boats using plastic jerry cans left villages. senior un official says myanmar's troops systematically gang-raped tortured rohingya women. envoy sexual violence conflict speaking refugees. says she's going raise mistreatment rohingya international criminal court, calling rape weapon genocide. al jazeera’s peter sharp reports. human rights rohingya myanmar bangladesh asia
renderpagesvideo('5628184409001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); catalan parliament friday voted declare independence spain, prompting celebrations barcelona strong response central government madrid. within hour, spanish senate authorised prime minister mariano rajoy's government impose direct rule catalonia . crisis began catalans voted secede spain banned referendum met police violence october 1. political crisis unfolds, answer important questions future catalonia. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5628181854001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5628181854001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > pageloadedsuccessfully next catalan leaders? rajoy fired catalonia's regional government, including leader, carles puigdemont. speaking crisis cabinet meeting decide madrid's measures, rajoy declared dissolution catalan parliament called snap election region december 21. {articleguid} central government ministries assume directly powers catalan administration regional poll takes place, said. spain's prosecutor's office, meanwhile, said would file rebellion charges puigdemont. court decide accept charges. spanish law, crime rebellion punished 30 years prison. spain's constitutional court also started review catalan parliament's vote. spain impose direct rule? many obstacles madrid's way, given catalans fiercely protective region's high degree autonomy, direct control education, healthcare police. spain's government said planning make arrests, unclear proceed current regional administration staff refuse leave offices. mossos d'esquadra, group catalonia's police force favouring ndependence, already said members follow instructions central government use force remove ministers legislators power. pageloadedsuccessfully rajoy said mossos chief would fired. rajoy chairs cabinet meeting madrid friday [diego crespo/afp/getty images] mossos officers may replaced national police, used heavy-handed tactics thwart referendum. fear could lead physical confrontations. catalonia's secessionist groups meanwhile called widespread civil disobedience. catalan national assembly called civil servants follow orders spanish government urged follow "peaceful resistance". unclear whether calls followed not. catalans support breaking away spain, polls showing roughly split. crisis affect catalonia's economy? spain's economy ministry already increased control regional finances started paying directly essential services. new proposal, madrid take full financial control. instability unleashed declaration independence sure economic consequences. nearly 1,700 companies recently moved legal headquarters catalonia, region accounting one-fifth spain's economic output. {articleguid} shares spanish companies, particularly catalan banks, dropped sharply vote. region attracts foreign tourists anywhere else country. world think? donald tusk, president european council, said catalan parliament's declaration independence changed nothing, adding eu deal central government madrid. "for eu nothing changes. spain remains interlocutor," tusk said twitter. eu nothing changes. spain remains interlocutor. hope spanish government favours force argument, argument force. — donald tusk (@eucopresident) october 27, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > eu insisted standoff catalonia internal matter spain backed madrid's position october 1 referendum illegal. madrid's allies eu us meanwhile rallied behind rajoy, voicing alarm latest constitutional crisis, expressing support united spain. "a political crisis solved dialogue," charles michel, belgian prime minister, said twitter. political crisis solved dialogue. call peaceful solution respect national international order — charles michel (@charlesmichel) october 27, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > germany uk said back spanish unity recognise catalonia's unilateral declaration independence. "the (german) federal government recognise independence declaration," german chancellor angela merkel's spokesman steffen seibert said statement posted twitter. "the sovereignty territorial integrity spain always inviolable," added. "we hope involved use available opportunities dialogue de-escalation." #katalonien : die bundesregierung erkennt die einseitige unabhängigkeitserklärung des regionalparlaments nicht an. pic.twitter.com/dsc1fl7ub8 — steffen seibert (@regsprecher) october 27, 2017 // <![cdata[ // ]]]] > uk prime minister theresa may's office said britain "does not" recognise catalan regional parliament's declaration independence, "is based vote declared illegal spanish courts". scottish government, led pro-independence scottish national party, criticised spain refusing dialogue said imposition direct rule madrid "cannot solution". united states also backed madrid's efforts keep country united. "catalonia integral part spain, united states supports spanish government's constitutional measures keep spain strong united," state department spokeswoman heather nauert said statement. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5627044094001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5627044094001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > real cost catalonia's drive independence? pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news agencies politics catalonia spain europe
russian civil war vladimir antonov ovseenko (left) fought red army, nikolay lvov (right) supported white army [sergey kozmin/al jazeera][wikipedia] "my grandfather terrorist," says anton antonovich antonov-ovseenko matter-of-factly. sitting small office central moscow, journalist academic pulls photos family archive recounts adventures grandfather, radical activist vladimir antonov-ovseenko. "he plotting terrorist attacks. 1906, sentenced death it. arrested opened fire bunch gendarme officers. shot two hands, like cowboy, pa pa," says antonov-ovseenko imitates shooting two index fingers. around time vladimir antonov-ovseenko still sitting jail awaiting firing squad, nikolay lvov, prominent liberal politician, attending last sessions russia's first state duma, tsar nicholas ii dissolve. lvov member political movement within russian gentry pressuring tsar pass constitution - something endear royal court. "[my great-great grandfather] asked become prime minister, nicholas ii refused ideas liberal," says british-russian entrepreneur david henderson-stewart. lvov believed political reforms badly needed russia that, order avoid chaos, ought come top, explains. 1917, revolutionary spirit engulfed russia, ovseenko, earlier escaped prison, lvov played prominent roles tumultuous events year. october 25 (new style november 7), stood opposing sides political conflict. day ovseenko led storming winter palace, seat provisional government, lvov three sons sought join anti-bolshevik forces - known white army - mobilised south moscow. one hundred years october revolution, descendants two men still live consequences political choices. like many russians, struggle legacy 1917: one intellectual opposition politician, businessman owner two soviet watch brands. legacy 'professional revolutionary' ovseenko, described occupation " professional revolutionary " questioned, born 1883 - two years radicals assassinated tsar alexander ii (the grandfather nicholas ii). revolutionary ideology emerged early left home unwilling accept family's "tsarist views". aftermath october revolution, forefront new regime-building efforts regularly joined bolshevik leadership meetings. anton antonov-ovseenko holds reproduction soviet poster features grandfather, vladimir antonov-ovseenko (to left lenin). arrested 1938, image removed official poster [mariya petkova/al jazeera] studying archives book bolsheviks, ovseenko's grandson discovered interesting detail minutes meetings. least two occasions question raised issue democratic elections - something bolsheviks paid lip service prior takeover. according minutes meetings, second time one even bothered answer man brought topic. "that man grandfather," says ovseenko, grandson. "it stalin. guy really didn't know going on. idea bolsheviks taken power pass someone else." unlike young stalin, vladimir ovseenko illusions imposing soviet power would entail. 1919, led bolshevik forces south crush newly proclaimed ukrainian state independence-seeking government. occupied various positions within new regime, including minister defence justice, member cheka leadership (the secret police structure preceded nkvd kgb). fact ovseenko participated first wave repressions bolsheviks unleashed opponents ordinary people something grandson come terms with. vladimir antonov-ovseenko (centre) officers red army. ovseenko graduate military school [sergey kozmin/al jazeera]. "i respect grandfather condemn bolshevism," says. "my father, too, critical father did." 1938, like many bolsheviks led revolution, ovseenko fell victim stalinist repressions. stalin had, then, learned destroy political enemies even chance become such. according grandson, ovseenko's last words firing squad were: "i bolshevik remain bolshevik." two years execution, 18-year-old son anton vladimirovich, arrested. son "enemy people", spent 13 years gulags. released 1953 "rehabilitated", acquitted, 1956, stalin's death. letter dated 1956 informing anton antonovich antonov-ovseenko military court case closed 'absence crime', making official rehabilitation [sergey kozmin/al jazeera] receive full civil rights 1964 banned returning moscow then. result, son anton antonovich born tambov, small town 450km south capital. "that also makes 'politically repressed'," says ovseenko chuckle. father, provoked soviet authorities articles books stalinist gulags repressions regularly harassed occasionally arrested. regime collapsed, headed union organisations victims political repressions founded museum dedicated history gulags. ovseenko studied journalism moscow state university later pursued two phd degrees, working topics related grandfather's work bolshevism. also active russian opposition, commentator member opposition party yabloko. although speaks endearment grandfather, passionately criticises soviet regime grandfather helped establish. believes russia's monarchy could preserved transformed democracy, happened monarchies parts western europe. sees continuity regime established 1917 current political culture. vladimir antonov-ovseenko family. son, anton, child middle. wife rozalia committed suicide jail [sergey kozmin/al jazeera] "i feel kind responsibility going type regime right result 1917," reflects. "to day cannot assess 1917 still hasn't ended. everything continues." believes russian president vladimir putin product repressive soviet culture. "putin served east germany, know, secret agent, surrounded enemies," says. "he doesn't know anything beyond became became, took along realised - enemies everywhere. created enemies even weren't any." young journalist 1990s, ovseenko chance encounter putin. time, would often go st petersburg join discussions journalists intellectuals press club. noticed short man would occasionally take place st petersburg's mayor anatoly sobchak. "i asked [colleagues], 'who guy?' said, it's former bodyguard sobchak, don't pay attention him," says. "it putin. indeed didn't pay attention him," recalls laugh. luxury watches soviet times lvov stayed white army end, losing two sons civil war followed revolutions 1917. "he always white army [although] old fight. ideologist white army," says henderson-stewart, great-great-grandson. david henderson-stewart shows photos great-great-grandfather nikolay lvov died exile france 1940 [sergey kozmin/al jazeera] 1920, along remaining members family, lvov boarded ship port crimea, bolsheviks storm peninsula. member extended family chose remain russia october revolution killed stalinist repressions 1936. world war ii, relative's wife arrested, preparing evacuate leningrad (st petersburg), leaving behind three orphans beg food streets order survive. lvov's decision board ship istanbul may saved family similar fate, also condemned life exile lasted three generations. "when come white russian [family], [the revolution] tragedy. lost everything … try keep, nearly extremist way, [any] link russia," says henderson-stewart. born english father russian mother, grew england france tightknit white russian community. grandmother (lvov's granddaughter) made sure spoke russian, went orthodox church knew sing old russian songs. took first visit moscow 1988. "i idea return russia, [as] occupied soviets," says. fifteen years later, country's economy picking up, fueled high oil prices, russian middle class emerging, henderson-stewart decided return looking start luxury brand business. soon found looking for: raketa- petrodvorets factory, founded almost 300 years ago peter great produce luxury items stone carvings. october revolution, workers produced stones lenin's mausoleum red square five soviet ruby stars towers kremlin. 1945, upon orders stalin, started producing watches. 2014, raketa watch factory released pobeda (victory) watch dedicated crimea. henderson-stewart says watch meant mark 2014 annexation liberation crimea fascists 1944 [sergey kozmin/al jazeera] henderson-stewart acquired two soviet watch brands: pobeda ("victory") established stalin commemorate soviet victory world war ii raketa ("rocket"), introduced mark yuri gagarin's journey space. family history made things tricky; idea descendant white russian family acquiring two watch brands heavy soviet symbolism problematic. found way justify himself. "even someone hates soviet union lenin stalin, like do, [one] still adhere two ideas: gagarin pobeda [victory]. that's kind made peace history brands," says. decided, however, soviet political symbolism would used design watches. henderson-stewart team planned release watch mark centenary revolution, history politics came play. designer watch prince rostislav romanov, descendant one nicholas ii's nephews member board directors company. "all white russian friends like, mad what, watch celebration russian revolution?" says henderson-stewart. "it's memory people suffered [because revolution]." him, business good russia. walls central moscow office covered photos famous russians wearing watches. prince rostislav romanov (right) designer board member raketa-petrodvorets watch factory. ancestor, peter great, founded factory 1721 [sergey kozmin/al jazeera] "now prime minister [dmitry medvedev] wearing raketa watch. putin given raketa watches people don't photo wearing it," says henderson-stewart proudly. despite russian passport, settled well country. wife, also white russian descent, french-born children joined moscow years ago. "the reason i'm happy live less agree everything going russia," explains. "generally, agree putin does, internationally [and] russia." opinion, western criticism russia exaggerated. stay away politics, total freedom think want, says. revolution mean russians today? like ovseenko henderson-stewart, many russians struggled impact legacy october revolution, regime created. centenary, russian society seems divided events 100 years ago. national survey conducted april independent polling agency levada centre showed 48 percent respondents thought revolution played positive role russian history; 31 percent said negative 21 percent could answer question. yet 46 percent respondents said bolshevik takeover illegal 49 percent also thought events 1917 caused serious damage russian culture. centenary revolution saw public discussions russia burying lenin's body destroying mausoleum displayed. idea backed chechen president ramazan kadyrov [mariya petkova/al jazaeera] russian government economical comments revolution. putin called "tragedy" accused lenin responsible disintegration soviet union: "he set nuclear bomb building called russia collapsed. need world revolution," said speech 2016. according historian nikita sokolov, kremlin reluctant talk events 1917 highly problematic current political climate. "we highest cost living europe government really trying pursue social equality; accessible public health care good quality education destroyed. circumstances [social justice equality] slogans 1917 revolution inconvenient," says. year, russia witnessed wave anti-government protests prompted accusations corruption high-level state officials. recent rally october saw thousands demanding political change fair elections. sokolov says government fearful "coloured revolution" taking place russia, following example ukraine georgia early 2000s. one reason russian authorities avoid 1917, says: simply doesn't fit national mythology promoting. kremlin's towers still bear red stars petrodvorets factory produced 1930s replace royal two-headed eagles [ap photo/denis tyrin] soviet era, october revolution main foundational myth regime used nation-building efforts, sokolov explains. early 2000s, putin introduced different one: russian victory world war ii. "we nation defeated west, note, nazi germany, west whole. fascism today everything russian authorities fighting against," sokolov elaborates. "the rallying point victory, war important, tragedy horror war mentioned." opinion, problem current political leadership country view history valuable experience, subject pride "material patriotic upbringing". "anything suitable patriotic upbringing point view authorities purged public consciousness," says. happened russia's revolution. follow mariya petkova twitter: @mkpetkova author mariya petkova mariya petkova bulgarian journalist covering middle east, balkans eastern europe. @ mkpetkova europe russia vladimir putin
philosophers continue argue whether moral judgements stated objective truths [gallo/getty] moral judgements true false? ethics, bottom, purely subjective matter, individuals choose, perhaps relative culture society one lives? might found answer. among philosophers, view moral judgements state objective truths fashion since 1930s, logical positivists asserted that, seems way verifying truth moral judgements, cannot anything expressions feelings attitudes. so, example, say: "you ought hit child," really expressing disapproval hitting child, encouraging stop hitting child. truth matter whether wrong hit child. although view ethics often challenged, many objections come religious thinkers appealed "god's commands". arguments limited appeal largely secular world western philosophy. defences objective truth ethics made appeal religion, could make little headway prevailing philosophical mood. last month, however, saw major philosophical event: publication derek parfit's long-awaited book matters . now, parfit, emeritus fellow souls college, oxford, written one book, reasons persons , appeared 1984, great acclaim. parfit's entirely secular arguments, comprehensive way tackles alternative positions, have, first time decades, put reject objectivism ethics defensive. matters book daunting length: two large volumes, totalling 1,400 pages, densely argued text. core argument comes first 400 pages, insurmountable challenge intellectually curious - particularly given parfit, best tradition english-language philosophy, always strives lucidity, never using obscure words simple ones do. sentence straightforward, argument clear, parfit often uses vivid examples make points. thus, book intellectual treat anyone wants understand much "what matters" whether anything really matter, objective sense. many people assume rationality always instrumental: reason tell us get want, basic wants desires beyond scope reasoning. so, parfit argues. grasp truth 1 + 1 = 2, see reason avoid suffering agony future time, regardless whether care about, desires about, whether suffer agony time. also reasons (though always conclusive reasons) prevent others suffering agony. self-evident normative truths provide basis parfit's defence objectivity ethics. one major argument objectivism ethics people disagree deeply right wrong, disagreement extends philosophers cannot accused ignorant confused. great thinkers like immanuel kant jeremy bentham disagree ought do, really objectively true answer question? parfit's response line argument leads make claim perhaps even bolder defence objectivism ethics. considers three leading theories ought - one deriving kant, one social-contract tradition hobbes, locke, rousseau, contemporary philosophers john rawls tm scanlon, one bentham's utilitarianism - argues kantian social-contract theories must revised order defensible. argues revised theories coincide particular form consequentialism, theory broad family utilitarianism. parfit right, much less disagreement apparently conflicting moral theories thought. defenders theories are, parfit's vivid phrase, "climbing mountain different sides". readers go matters seeking answer question posed title might disappointed. parfit's real interest combating subjectivism nihilism. unless show objectivism true, believes, nothing matters. parfit come question "what matters", answer might seem surprisingly obvious. tells us, example, matters "we rich people give luxuries, ceasing overheat earth's atmosphere, taking care planet ways, continues support intelligent life". many us already reached conclusion. gain parfit's work possibility defending moral claims objective truths. peter singer professor bioethics princeton university laureate professor university melbourne. revised editions books practical ethics expanding circle published. version article first appeared project syndicate . views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. source: al jazeera author peter singer peter singer professor bioethics princeton university. recent book life save.
2008 financial crisis sparked renewed interest writings karl marx, says zabala [epa] barcelona, spain - reading writing karl marx necessarily make communist, fact number distinguished philosophers reevaluating marx's ideas certainly means something. autumn 2008 global economic crisis, new editions marx's texts returned bookstores accompanied large number introductions, biographies, new interpretations german master. resurrection undoubtedly caused financial meltdown allowed democratic governments, marx's revival among philosophers simple consequence many believe. all, early nineties great french philosopher jacques derrida anticipated return response francis fukuyama's (self-proclaimed) "neoliberal victory" "end history". fault lines - history occupation fukuyama's predictions, occupy movement arab spring demonstrated history calls new beginning beyond economic, neoliberal, international paradigms live in. number renowned philosophers (judith balso, bruno bosteels, susan buck-mors, jodi dean, terry eagleton, jean-luc nancy, jacques ranciere, others), led slavoj zizek, began envision beginning would look communist terms, is, radical alternative. took place successful conferences london , paris , berlin , new york (which attended thousands academics, students, activists) also best-selling books toni negri michael hardt's empire , alain badiou's communist hypothesis , gianni vattimo's ecce comu . although philosophers consider communist - least, way - fact communist thought centre political research permits us ask many communist philosophers today. marxist revival clearly, conferences books, communism proposed programme political parties repeat previous historical regimes rather existential response current neoliberal global condition. correlation existence philosophy constitutive philosophical traditions also politics responsibility existential well-being humans. all, politics supposed simply service everyday administrative life also provide reliable guide everyone fully exercise existence. obligations met, philosophers tend become existentialist, is, question propose alternatives. case beginning last century oswald spengler, karl popper, philosophers began warn us dangers come blind rationalisation human realms unfettered industrialisation world. politics, instead resisting human industrialisation, followed logics devastating consequences, well know. today, things different consider latest effects neoliberalism - apart current financial crisis, differentials material well-being never explicit - slum populations growing shocking 25 million people year, devastation planet's natural resources causing dire ecological consequences throughout world, many cases late correct. this, recent uk ministry defence report predicted resurgence "anti-capitalist ideologies, possibly linked religious, anarchist nihilist movements, also populism revival marxism". revival marxism direct consequence capitalism's existential annihilations. 'communism'? although word "communist" acquired innumerable different meanings throughout history, today's public opinion considered remnant past also imagined political system cultural, social, economical components controlled state. inside story - demanding 'economic justice' although might case china, vietnam, north korea, philosophers meaning outdated also stands sharp contrast existential justifications revival. zizek put it, state communism didn't work, it's primarily "failure anti-statist politics, endeavour break constraints state, replace statal forms organisation 'direct' non-representative forms self-organisation." communism, antistatist realm equal opportunities, today become best idea, hypothesis, guide nongovernmental stateless political movements, arose protests seattle (1999), cochabamba (2000), barcelona (2011). although movements fought different specific causes (against injurious economic globalisation, privatisation water supplies, harmful financial policies) enemy same: democracy's system property distribution capitalism's private impositions. increasing poverty slum populations demonstrate, model left behind succeed within them, generating new communists. communism democracy sum, negri hardt see " common " (ie, private public immaterial property held common) badiou insurrectional experiences (as paris commune ), possibility nonstate "forms self-organisation", is, communism, vattimo (and i) suggested looking new democratically elected leaders venezuela, bolivia, latin american nations . leaders managed enact communist policies without violent insurrections, isn't theoretical programmatic strength rather weakness. contrary "scientific socialism" agenda, weak (or hermeneutic) communism embraced ecological cause degrowth also decentralisation state bureaucratic system order permit independent counsels increase community involvement. come surprise many philosophers, made communist destructive actions life-destroying policies neoliberalism, also see alternative region offers, especially latin american nations demonstrated communist access power also take place formal rules democracy. santiago zabala icrea research professor philosophy university barcelona. books include hermeneutic nature analytic philosophy (2008), remains (2009), and, recently, hermeneutic communism (2011, coauthored g. vattimo), published columbia university press. source: al jazeera author santiago zabala santiago zabala icrea research professor philosophy pompeu fabra university barcelona. latin america bolivia china north korea spain
drones cause uproar everywhere used, among world's ethicists lawyers [gallo/getty] scholars always loved war, whether it's chemists engineers discovering efficient ways kill large numbers people social scientists, theologians philosophers debating when, fight. philosophers particular long thought violence; plato likely first thinker understand goes name "justice" often merely violence thievery practiced holding reins power. plato, ability continue rule depended imposing upon weak rules routinely break maintain position. plato argued well-functioning society could exist far philosophers warriors "guardians" (the latter former's watchful gaze). ensure justice prevailed system, guardians would live poverty share possessions common, even children. sadly - least philosophers - society hasn't progressed quite way plato hoped. war, drones justice philosophers today accept argument seminal inter-war philosopher walter benjamin violence cannot understood judged except "in relation law justice". arguments whether war means it's fought "just" past century increasingly grounded international law, particularly international humanitarian law imperative protecting civilians inevitably caught crossfire conflicts, whether civil international. people & power - attack drones certainly many conservative philosophers write prolifically support definitions "just war" (the philosophical underpinnings president bush's idea "preemptive war" among recent examples oeuvre ), profession whole said skew towards anti-war sentiment. view epitomised 2003 statement released members american philosophical association us invasion iraq. argued launching preemptive war without threat imminent attack "stretches meaning preemption beyond reasonable bounds sets dangerous precedent states may feel free follow". today, vehement debates surrounding use force united states longer surround invasion occupation iraq, rather use remotely piloted aerial vehicles - commonly known "drones" - us, one important weapons ongoing war terror. use drones caused uproar countries pakistan, afghanistan, yemen occupied territories, routinely used kill suspected militants, also among ethicists international legal community. now, least one philosopher, bradley jay strawser, taken challenge offering viable justification use drones. recent hire naval postgraduate school, arguments caused enough stir warrant profile opinion piece guardian . strawser claims guardian profile fact misrepresented views; reading two published papers subject, profile fact underplays glaring problems arguments. applied us policy broadly, reveal far moral ethical quagmire united states sunk bush obama administrations. things equal? moving postgraduate school, strawser worked navy's centre study professional military ethics oxford university's institute ethics, law armed conflict ( elac ). among research sponsored elac projects exploring "automated, intelligent combat decision support systems command control" prosaic issues related determining law, norms institutions prevent armed conflict contemporary reality - supposedly "rigid dichotomies" international law war theory become "increasingly difficult apply". themes weigh heavily strawser's work, particular 2010 article titled "moral predators: duty employ uninhabited aerial vehicles", published journal military ethics , details argument support using drones. paper makes two primary arguments. first, claims "remotely controlled weapons systems merely extension long historical trajectory removing warrior ever farther foe warrior's better protection. uavs difference degree path; nothing remote use puts different ethical category". strawser's second argument use drones ethical, reduce risk "just war fighters" involved operating and, important, lower number innocent civilians killed strikes compared forms attack. specifically: "other things equal," writes, "using technology is, fact, obligatory," reduce risk person "just" side controlling vehicle. words, avoid putting soldier pilot risk using missile fired ship drone would effectiveness one fired plane overhead ground nearby, moral obligation put soldiers harm's way. us sends sub drones gulf important caveat strawser "their employment done part fully justified war effort meeting" terms abiding "by jus ad bellum [when one engage war] jus bello [laws war] criteria". strawser makes important claim, use uavs morally justified precisely "actually increase pilot's ability discriminate" legitimate targets and, borrow phrase great theorist violence, peter clemenza , "pain ass innocent bystanders" might vicinity target area. strawser's entire argument rests claim, admits, can't demonstrate drones produce lower civilian collateral damage weapons, use becomes much harder justify - even protect "just warfighter" back virginia. might imagine, then, provided proof claim fact use drones produces lower casualties weapons systems. precisely strawser's evidence? shockingly, consists since deleted web brochure israeli drone-maker, rafael armament development authority, quote israeli pilot drones help avoid civilian casualties contained document (one might wonder didn't set least alarm bells) unpublished conference presentation uses "database combining reports variety sources" argue drones fact produce far lower civilian casualty ratio methods attacking militants. that's it. publication one important strategic political issues day, helping shape government's justification drone strikes - indeed, strawser admits hired navy postgradate school good measure help advance argument - actually bases fundamental argument israeli military industry propaganda unpublished conference paper. what's more, strawser doesn't bother addressing numerous studies shown opposite, whether it's brookings institution report "suggests every militant killed, ten civilians also died", new american foundation study argues approximately 32 per cent casualties civilians. strawser address guardian interview follow-up op-ed recent revelation new york times obama administration uses formula counting number militants killed "deceptive" (in words worried government officials) counts able-bodied adult male hit strike combatant. (al jazeera's listening post recently story issue civilian casualties, available .) ask, really counts serious scholarship field military ethics, never mind philosophy broadly? one would imagine discipline would demand even rigorous empirical evidence back ethical claims, considering stakes involved. international law sidelined beyond this, much larger issue international law whether united states legally kill people outside recognised battle fields conflicts authorised united nations security council. strikingly, phrase "international law" doesn't appear strawser's military ethics article, despite fact inseparable larger issues whether drone strikes justifiable. un, relevant chapters articles charter. surprising, administration adopts similar tactic strawser's confronted challenges use drones, offering "legal conclusions, legal analysis", asked justify use . drone designers seek non-violent uses perhaps important, focus strawser's work almost entirely "just warfighter". drones impact affected populations - feels like live terror constant buzzing drones, never knowing one "precision" missiles might hit house car contains adult men beards - along children elderly - is, least intellectual context he's operating in, irrelevant. one reason might well owe fact strawser specifically "reject[s] moral equality combatants", one cornerstones war theory, long refused adjudicate morality permissibility action based judgment parties conflict "just" "unjust". determination impossible step moral universe individual sides, side naturally claim cause just. yet without offering justification change one fundamental components war theory, strawser declares "the warrior fighting cause morally justified take life enemy combatant, whereas unjust fighter justified, even follow traditional principles jus bello targeting combatants like, kill justified fighter. thus, chivalrous reason combatant 'equal playing field' 'fight fair'". another article titled "walking tightrope war", strawser declares even directly "a soldier's side must cause capable acting justly war. presumption moral symmetry soldiers thus abandoned". strawser arrives conclusion comparing determination causes engaging war whether individual justly kill someone attacks without warning. "for kinds relevant knowledge, epistemic difference personal self-defence war matter degree kind," declares "moral predators". seems unaware people things nations (perhaps they're corporations , that's different, though related issue). might able " stand ground " 24 states us, considering much death destruction countries unleash other, requirements following international law crucial preventing even greater hostilities potential conflict appears horizon. indeed, strawser actually seems clueless difference "walking tightrope", declares support "evidence-relative" versus "fact-relative" view "moral wrongdoing permissibility". words, long think you're right attack - say, evidence someone named curveball saying iraq wmd - turns evidence wrong fact, don't feel guilty, never mind worry facing international sanction even tribunal hague. it, might, assume, nice say you're sorry, promise bit careful next time. thankfully, use drones - whether based facts merely evidence supposed wrong-doing (or thinking wrong-doing, playing wrong first-person shooter video game, nsa apparently determines evidence enough want harm us) is, least now, option people. soon enough, people refuse leave homes unarmed travelling around armed drones hovering cars, ready attack anyone unexpectedly comes close raises owner's pulse blood pressure. think george zimmerman versus trayvon martin outer ring seventh circle hell, idea life like, afghanistan yemen, texas colorado, weaponised drones become slightly expensive remote controlled helicopter child keeps bothering buy. pakistan expresses concern drones justice 'beta-world-zandar' strawser's arguments may seem ill-conceived put context real-world setting, read work, becomes clear he's fact operating real world all. instead, least "drones" article, he's operating place called "beta-world-zandar" (that's calls "moral predators") "future worlds", inhabited imaginary men named "tom". reality gets relegated endnotes article, admits "there many united states military community question efficacy uav usage rather principled worries concerning use mentioned above". i'm sure beta-world-zandar is, strawser clearly believes he's working "hot topic" professional universe. indeed, giddiness seems gotten better interview guardian profile, explained use drones: "it's upside. there's downside. ethically normatively, there's tremendous value." words clearly looked worse page sounded coming mouth, op-ed wrote subsequent publication profile, declared: "unfortunately - understandably, given complexities matter - consider views misrepresented. disturbingly, reported claim 'there's downside' killing drones . fact, majority work drones dedicated elucidating analysing serious moral downsides killing remote control pose. guardian graciously offered space set record straight." course, doesn't deny actually said written, merely "disturbing" - rightfully so. again, rather "setting record straight", merely repeats claim drones kill fewer civilians options. goes reiterate "my claim drones entirely conditional: used mission just. conditional claims, antecedent false, entire claim invalidated". course disingenuous. neither media navy would paying attention strawser drone debate merely whether, "other things equal", worse kill someone drone gun cruise missile. instead, power drones - seemingly godlike omnipresence, omniscience omnipotence - sows confusion, even among philosophers know better. thus strawser argues "the kind change i'm proposing may already occurring. take nato's present counter-insurgency (coin) operations afghanistan. nato forces engage last vestiges al-qaeda quite differently way engage taliban fighters. former attack 'with prejudice' and, possible, kill via drone airstrike. latter engage cautiously, avoid high death tolls use extreme restraint avoid non-combatant causalities". fact, hundreds innocent civilians killed us drone strikes suspected taliban members, leaves aside even bigger problem person gets defined "taliban" whether taliban, whatever may be, enough warrant one's blown bits hunch drone operative virginia, cases, white house. us defends drone use targeted killing would kant say? strawser considers immanuel kant among greatest influences. thus homepage contains well-known quote master moralist, declared "morality properly doctrine may make happy, make worthy happiness". kant certainly felt philosophers impact important public debates, arguing political leaders would heed - least - advice, truly peaceful world order could created. also knew well far humanity remained minimum level civilisation morality required achieve termed "perpetual peace" ("we civilised - perhaps much good - sorts social grace decorum. consider reached morality - that, much lacking", famously wrote idea universal history cosmopolitan point view ). happen, individuals states would need behave according "categorical imperative", states one "act accordance maxim time become universal law". it's golden rule (in fact, it’s far universal standard set level society, individual). it's powerful moral constraint actions might negatively impact people, including use new technologies kill people far away lands quite possibly haven't done anything harm you. implications categorical imperative us drone policy couldn't clear. aclu national security project director hina shamsi writes , us must ensure use drone strikes "comports international law, set dangerous precedent could used tomorrow nations less respect right life particular, human rights general". philosophers going join kill chain help formulate policies use violence countries' militaries, would nice spent little less time thinking things work beta-world-zandar "just warfighters" ply trade complete moral confidence, time helping figure transform fundamental policies governments planet towards supporting global political economy encourages peace, democracy sustainable development. shouldn't much ask tradition that, 2,500 years, interrogated fundamental questions human nature society. update august 8, 2012: since publication column recieved new information casualty rates drone strikes 2012, data included studies cited above. according new america foundation , number drone strikes far year less half number 2011, significant confusion many civilians killed strikes. one hand, latest report states handful civilians killed, yet breaks numbers individual incident, every single case describes number non-militants killed attack "unknown", raises question authors could come total admittedly data individual strikes. us government data used, raises issue victims classified militants civilians discussed article. moreover, true drone strikes improving civilian kill rate (and certainly hope is), fact could nevertheless lead increase frequency strikes, would ultimately produce civilian deaths methods attacks which, indiscriminate, used infrequently. mark levine professor middle eastern history uc irvine distinguished visiting professor centre middle eastern studies lund university sweden author forthcoming book revolutions arab world, five year old toppled pharaoh . source: al jazeera author mark levine mark levine professor middle eastern history university california, irvine, distinguished visiting p @ culturejamming us & canada afghanistan iraq pakistan united states
works french philosopher michel foucault usually forefront eurocentric philosophy [afp] lovely little panegyric distinguished european philosopher slavoj zizek, published recently al jazeera , read: many important active philosophers today: judith butler united states, simon critchley england, victoria camps spain, jean-luc nancy france, chantal mouffe belgium, gianni vattimo italy, peter sloterdijk germany slovenia, slavoj zizek, mention others working brazil, australia china. immediately strikes reader seeing opening paragraph unabashedly european character disposition thing author calls "philosophy today" - thus laying claim subject time peculiar fact exclusive property europe. even judith butler cited example united states decidedly product european philosophical genealogy, thinking somewhere derrida foucault, brought bear understanding gender sexuality. sure, china brazil (and australia, also european extension) cited location philosophers worthy designation, none evidently merits specific name sitting next eminent european philosophers. question course globality philosophical visions prominent european (and extension certain american) philosophers indeed share people deepest corners africa remotest villages india, china, latin america, arab muslim world ("deep far", is, fictive european centre) indeed learn better understand lives. goes without saying, without confidence self-consciousness philosophers philosophical traditions represent scarce lay universal claim epistemic credulities, would able put pen paper finger keyboard write sentence. thinkers outside europe indeed eminent philosophers, philosophy practice globality certain degrees self-conscious confidence without thinking presume universality. question rather something else: thinkers operate outside european philosophical pedigree, whether practice thinking european languages colonially inherited else mother tongues - asia, africa, latin america, thinkers actually earned dignity name, perhaps even pedigree "public intellectual" dissimilar hannah arendt, jean-paul sartre, michel foucault piece al jazeera offered predecessors zizek? pageloadedsuccessfully "why european philosophy 'philosophy', african philosophy 'ethnophilosophy' ?" pageloadedsuccessfully thinkers outside purview european philosophers; name designate honour learn epithet "public intellectual" age globalised media? constellation thinkers south asia, exemplified leading figures like ashis nandy, partha chatterjee, gayatri spivak, ranajit guha, sudipta kaviraj, dipesh chakrabarty, homi bhabha, akeel bilgrami, come together form nucleus thinking conscious itself? would constellation perhaps merit word "thinking" manner would qualify one - south asian - term "philosopher" "public intellectuals"? "south asian thinkers" "thinkers", way european thinkers are? mozart sneezes "music" (and quite sure great genius even sneezed melodiously) sophisticated indian music ragas subject "ethnomusicology"? "ethnos" also applicable philosophical thinking indian philosophers practice - much thinking subject western european north american anthropological fieldwork investigation? turn around look africa. thinkers like henry odera oruka, ngugi wa thiong'o, wole soyinka, chinua achebe, okot p'bitek, taban lo liyong, achille mbembe, emmanuel chukwudi eze, souleymane bachir diagne, v.y. mudimbe: would qualify term "philosopher" "public intellectuals" perhaps, also "ethnophilosophy"? european philosophy "philosophy", african philosophy ethnophilosophy, way indian music ethnomusic - ethnographic logic based reasoning go new york museum natural history (popularised shawn levy's night museum [2006]), see animals non-white peoples cultures featured inside glass cages, cage sight white people cultures - get stroll isles enjoy power ability looking taxidermic yaks, cave dwellers, elephants, eskimos, buffalo, native americans, etc, single winding row. ethnographic gaze evident encounter intellectual disposition arab muslim world: azmi bishara, sadeq jalal al-azm, fawwaz traboulsi, abdallah laroui, michel kilo, abdolkarim soroush. list prominent thinkers endless. japan, kojin karatani, cuba, roberto fernandez retamar, even united states people like cornel west, whose thinking entirely european continental tradition - them? fit in? think - also thinking, philosophical, pertinent, perhaps, also suitable ethnographic examinations? question eurocentricism entirely blase. course europeans eurocentric see world vantage point, not? inheritors multiple (now defunct) empires still carry within phantom hubris empires think particular philosophy "philosophy" particular thinking "thinking", everything else - great european philosopher immanuel levinas wont saying - "dancing". question rather manner non-european thinking reach self-consciousness evident universality, cost whatever european philosophers may think world large, purpose offering alternative (complementary contradictory) visions reality rooted lived experiences people africa, asia, latin america - counties climes spell thing calls "the west" happily more. trajectory contemporary thinking around globe spontaneously conditioned immediate time disparate locations, much deeper wider spectrum goes back earlier generations thinkers ranging josé marti jamal al-din al-afghani, aime cesaire, w.e.b. dubois, liang qichao, frantz fanon, rabindranath tagore, mahatma gandhi, etc. question remains dignity "philosophy" whence anthropological curiosity "ethnophilosophy"? let's seek answer europe - subaltern europe. 'the intellectuals cosmopolitan stratum' prison notebooks , antonio gramsci short discussion kant's famous phrase groundwork metaphysics morals (1785) quite critical understanding takes philosopher become universally self-conscious, think measure yardstick globality. gramsci's stipulation critical - begins: kant's maxim "act way conduct become norm men similar conditions" less simple obvious appears first sight. meant 'similar conditions'? sure, quintin hoare geoffrey nowell smith (the editors translators english translation gramsci's prison notebooks ) note, gramsci fact misquotes kant, "similar conditions" appear original text, german philosopher says: "i never act otherwise could also maxim become universal law." principle, called "the categorical imperative", fact foundation kantian ethics. kant says "universal law", gramsci says, "a norm men", adds additional "similar conditions", german original. "the world large, arab muslim world particular, going world historic changes - changes produced thinkers, poets, artists, public intellectuals centre moral politcial imagination . " pageloadedsuccessfully misquoting quite critical here. gramsci's conclusion reason kant say says offer behaviour measure universal ethics "kant's maxim presupposes single culture, single religion, 'world-wide' conformism... kant's maxim connected time, cosmopolitan enlightenment critical conception author. brief, linked philosophy intellectuals cosmopolitan stratum". effect gramsci discovers, southern italian suffering dungeons european fascism, brooklyn call chutzpah , think centre universe, self-assuredness gives philosopher certain panache authority think absolutists grand narrative terms. therefore agent bearer "similar conditions" indeed creator. is, "must" act according "model" would like see diffused among mankind, according type civilisation whose coming working-or whose preservation "resisting" forces threaten disintegration. precisely self-confidence, self-consciousness, audacity think agent history enables thinker think particular thinking "thinking" universal terms, philosophy "philosophy" city square "the public space", thus globally recognised public intellectual. thus direct unmitigated structural link empire, imperial frame reference, presumed universality thinker thinking bosoms empire. people, europeans perfectly entitled self-centrism. imperial hubris enabled eurocentricism still produces infomercials sort read al jazeera zizek phantom memories time "the west" assured confidence sense universalism globality, gramsci put it, "to type civilisation whose coming working". globality - people every clime continent claiming cosmopolitan worldliness innate ability think beyond confinements eurocentricism, sure still entitled phantom pleasures thinking centre universe. gramscian superimposed "similar conditions" emerging multiple cites liberated humanity. world large, arab muslim world particular, going world historic changes - changes produced thinkers, poets, artists, public intellectuals centre moral politcial imagination - thinking acting terms domestic immediate geography yet global consequences. compared liberating tsunamis turning world upside down, cliche-ridden assumption europe increasingly provincialised philosophical pedigree tempest cup. reduced fair share humanity large, like continents climes, europe much teach world, far leveled democratic playing field, philosophy european philosophy "philosophy", music european music "music", infomercial would necessary sell public intellectuals "public intellectuals". hamid dabashi hagop kevorkian professor iranian studies comparative literature columbia university new york. among recent books world persian literary humanism (2012). source: al jazeera author hamid dabashi hamid dabashi hagop kevorkian professor iranian studies comparative literature columbia university. @ hamiddabashi us & canada latin america australia belgium brazil
renderpagesvideo('5649892337001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); many bonn predictably unhappy president trump's decision withdraw us paris agreement . but, spite that, concerted effort world leaders leaders us economy keep working tackle climate change. much speculation start latest climate conference germany promised us pullout paris agreement may derail process. contrary, appears galvanised efforts lessen effects global warming. world leaders representatives $6.2 trillion us economy come together declare determination keep fighting climate change abandon dirty fuels. al jazeera's nick clark reports bonn, germany. environment germany europe
renderpagesvideo('5645619815001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); uk 's foreign secretary apologised causing distress british citizen jailed iran , family. nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe facing charges spreading propaganda. boris johnson reportedly complicated case, making comments could extend prison sentence. al jazeera's neave barker reports london. europe united kingdom politics
czech muslim holds banner protest rally 'terrorism' prague august 10, 2016 [david w cerny/reuters] muslims czech republic estimates say 5,000 20,000 muslims live czech republic islamic community comprises 0.2 percent population hate crimes risen amid islamophobia muslims quit country prague, czech republic - walking along idyllic streets prague blocks away famed wenceslas square, 38-year-old palestinian-born raed shaikh stopped point halal grocery store handful muslim residents town frequent. motioned towards middle eastern restaurant right, hidden behind small mosque. "here highest concentration muslims prague," project manager said laughingly. though exact figures exist, muslim community czech republic small, 5,000 20,000, less 0.02 percent total population. portion lives prague. prague muslims, czech republic [philip heijmans/al jazeera] [al jazeera] yet islam become hot-button topic czech national politics, power resolve country's hung parliament could lie politician whose policy is, "no islam. terrorism". czech-japanese entrepreneur tomio okamura freedom direct democracy party (spd) rode parliament third powerful party recent october nationwide elections, discernible policy drive islam completely czech republic. campaign slogan convincing enough newly formed spd scoop significant votes first ever electoral race. built ties far-right movements europe, marine le pen's national front france , okamura hopes achieve goal ongoing coalition talks controversial billionaire andrej babis, slated become country's next prime minister. babis' action dissatisfied citizens party (ano) october elections decisive fashion secure simple majority. must form coalition fragmented parliament expressed little willingness work populist agro-magnate time elections investigated fraud. muslims quit country amid rising islamophobia muslims prague fear circumstances may lead alliance okamura, giving unprecedented platform - worrying prospect given ano spd's common disdain muslim refugees. "we fight ancestors built here. muslims belgians brussels, that's problem. don't want here. won't telling us live here," babis told journalists june. type increasingly hostile rhetoric migrants profoundly stoked islamophobia. members prague's small muslim community, sign worrying times ahead. muslims doctors, engineers specialists on, yet political parties trying change rights eliminate islam vladimir sanka, board member muslim community prague association "many friends already left, [islamophobia] first reason, would certainly second," palestinian-born shaikh said. currently, islam recognised religion czech republic, followers restricted several basic privileges enjoyed faiths, including right establish schools, hold legally recognised weddings conduct religious ceremonies public spaces. "most muslims doctors, engineers specialists on, yet [political] parties…are trying change rights eliminate islam," said vladimir sanka, 58-year-old czech muslim, board muslim community prague association. 'nobody forbid freedom religion' negotiations two parties ongoing, okamura already told local media ano pledged consider restriction asylum muslims ban "sharia", islamic law, spd support babis unless agreement reached. lubomir kopecek, political analyst masaryk university brno, said alliance stage unlikely, though, means unfeasible. "if ano okamura government would happen next weeks months, could change many things," said, referring religious freedoms. even two parties align, would hard time carrying ban, chief constitutional court, pavel rychetsky, told local media saying: "nobody forbid freedom religion belief." fewer 1 percent country's population muslim [philip heijmans/al jazeera] still, move would unprecedented region. slovakia last year passed law effectively banning islam gaining official status religion. making matters worse, growing anti-islam sentiment resulted uptick hate speech even physical attacks muslims moved long refugee crisis. july, local media reported two muslim women escorting group children aquapark prague third woman began verbally physically assaulting them. one victims shaikh's wife. "it becoming tough here, unfortunately," said. shaikh, twice debated issue okamura czech television 2015, said become difficult community find place prague gather eid al-fitr - celebration end ramadan - recent years. large halls want nothing muslims. "it wasn't problem 23 years, couple years ago became mission impossible," said shaikh. czechs exhibit 'highest level racial bias europe' like eastern neighbours, poland hungary, czech republic's attitude towards migrants soured 2015 escalation attacks western europe refugee crisis continued unfold. despite small number muslims never fallen victim attack, perceived threat attacks paired tradition nativism - example, longstanding persecution ethnic romani - made country susceptible populism far-right attitudes. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(2637667047001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_2637667047001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: anti-roma sentiment grows czech republic (2:22) pageloadedsuccessfully according harvard university survey published earlier 2017, hundreds thousands people europe, czechs exhibited higher level implicit racial bias european country. prague, politicians including president milos zeman sought advantage adopting tough positions muslims, standing fierce opposition eu refugee quotas , taking 12 nearly 2,700 refugees allotted european commission. stance led inflammatory rhetoric, zeman remarking muslim integration czech society "practically impossible". anti-islamic group known block islam gather saudi embassy prague mock hajj pilgrimage september 2016 [philip heijmans/al jazeera] rhetoric paved way anti-islam groups like block islam, known staging outlandish events last year included dressing traditional muslim garb mocking hajj pilgrimage marching around portable toilet meant resemble holy kaaba mecca. separate event, group staged fake islamic state iraq levant ( isil , also known isis) invasion old town square included mock beheading. "they small group, want provoke reaction hope react say told us so," sanka said. exacerbating issue, czech republic fallen victim destabilising disinformation campaign - widely believed perpetrated kremlin - hopes see czechs turn western-backed democratic politics favour illiberal autocrats. order that, dozens fake news organisations established recent years focused creating false narrative muslims goal herding populace towards populists. hatefree, anti-discrimination organisation run government debunked approximately 100 anti-muslim hoax stories czech republic past years. "we don't capacity much here, still tough position," shaikh said small community. "on every corner, every tv newspaper, see stance fear, wonder people scared." demonstrators march anti-immigrant rally prague september 12, 2015 [david w cerny/reuters] source: al jazeera news islamophobia czech republic europe
sakir khader detained along group 50 syrian refugees [brandpunt/al jazeera] dutch journalist sakir khader, detained monday greek-turkish border, released police custody greece . khader, reporting refugees crossing greece via turkey, handed suspended five-month prison sentence tuesday entering restricting military area near town didymoteicho without permission, greek police told al jazeera. reporter current affairs show brandpunt, khader joined group 50 syrians crossed small river demarcates border greece turkey. along refugees, detained police charges trespassed military zone. release, khader arrived greece's second-biggest city, thessaloniki, expected fly back netherlands wednesday. "i detained 30 hours treated badly," khader told dutch broadcaster nos ordeal. "i allowed make calls kept getting isil-related questions," referring islamic state iraq levant armed group. "i way group refugees [greece's capital] athens see refugees entering europe," added. "we met police border mistaken smuggler, even though showed press cards." greek police said three others - german citizen two iraqis - also arrested incident lavara area close didymoteicho. also released tuesday given suspended sentences. earlier tuesday, robbert ter weijden, deputy editor brandpunt, claimed area khader arrested marked off-limits. "we filmed long ago nothing shows you're entering military zone," ter weijden told al jazeera netherlands. "in addition dutch passport, sakir also carried two dutch press cards," said, adding greek police first believe dutch citizen. khader's sister, diana, told al jazeera officers detained arab appearance. "he beard brown skin. sakir also palestinian passport carry detained," said. "it's ironic happening (european union) eu country, eu continues criticise (turkish president recep tayyip) erdogan comes press freedom turkey," added. source: al jazeera news europe greece syrian refugees press freedom
renderpagesvideo('5647186575001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); scientists warning glaciers french alps heating fast becoming threat popular tourist villages. result global warming , glaciers become warmer threat collapse avalanches increases. cost potential threats fall neighbouring villages could completely destroyed. research shows climate change blame, similar threats examined andes antarctica . al jazeera’s craig leeson reports mont blanc, france . europe france environment
catalan president carles puigdemont attends memorial event barcelona [file: reuters/ivan alvarado] dismissed catalan leaders currently belgium jailed "imprisonment would caused irreparable damage", belgian judge said legal judgment obtained catalan daily ara. former catalan president carles puigdemont members sacked regional government fled brussels late last month region's parliament declared independence spain. spanish courts issued warrant arrest early november charges sedition rebellion, among others. catalan politicians released november 6 less day belgian custody. ex-ministers face extradition hearing set friday. allowed leave country. gonzalo boye, spanish human rights lawyer representing mertixell serret antoni comin, two ex-catalan ministers currently brussels, said belgian judge's words odds spanish judge carme lamela. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5630033189001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5630033189001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: catalonia leaders face rebellion charges spain (1:42) pageloadedsuccessfully lamela sent nine catalan politicians , including dismissed catalan vice president oriol junqueras catalan republican left (erc) party, prison since beginning november. it's "quite clear" spanish belgian courts "totally opposite" approaches handling question catalan independence, boye told al jazeera. "it's difficult understand difference criteria," continued, saying judicial discord unique history european union. political crisis judge's remarks latest development catalan independence crisis began october 1, catalan regional government held disputed referendum independence. spanish national government sent national police civil guard, military regiment tasked domestic policing, stop referendum. tactics used law enforcement stop referendum called "excessive" rights groups. dismissed catalan government said 90 percent voters chose independence day, though turnout less 50 percent. political back-and-forth puigdemont spanish prime minister mariano rajoy october, catalan parliament voted independence october 27, day spanish government enacted article 155 constitution, previously unused measure allows central government administer breakaway region. rajoy since called elections december 21. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: spain's rajoy visits catalonia imposing direct rule (2:13) pageloadedsuccessfully pro-independence party pdecat announced list election week. list still headed puigdemont. likewise, erc announced list junqueras top, along imprisoned dismissed ex-ministers. albert rivera, president populist right citizens party, firmly catalan secession, concerned pdecat erc choosing put forward pro-independence legislators. debate rivera national parliament catalan crisis, rajoy said spanish government "two important allies: constitution law", elections return catalonia normalcy. gabriel rufian, catalan republican left party, held pair handcuffs debate told rajoy "this dialogue government applied", referencing imprisoned catalan government. national catalan assembly (anc), pro-independence organising group, paid 25,000 euro ($29,500) bond three members catalan parliament - anna simo, lluis guino, ramona barrufet, lluis corominas, former member. jordi sanchez, leader anc, along jordi cuixart, leader prominent pro-independence organisation, omnium cultural, imprisoned without bail charges sedition since october. boye, lawyer serret comin, said belgian courts 10 days decide whether self-exiled catalan government extradited friday hearing. lawyers defending catalan exiles 15 days appeal case pro-extradition decision. source: al jazeera news europe spain catalonia european union
renderpagesvideo('5645457857001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); french president emmanuel macron visited clichy-sous-bois, one paris' troubled well-known suburbs, first time president. twelve years ago two teenagers killed chased police. incident sparked three weeks violence suburb whose residents feel discriminated struggle poverty, unemployment lack opportunity. macron promised increased investment jobs education tax breaks investors there. residents remained sceptical, saying six months term, macron’s policies favour rich poor. deputy mayor clichy-sous-bois said visit “symbolic” important needed followed action. al jazeera’s natacha butler reports clichy-sous-bois, france. politics france europe
renderpagesvideo('5645830952001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); concrete jungles world's cities massive sources carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, due part construction. architects reverting back one oldest forms building material cheaper, faster sustainable. al jazeera's nick clark reports zillertal austria . europe austria environment
arab organisation human rights uk says uae minister's comments amount 'incitement muslims europe' [omer messinger/getty images] human rights group condemned comments top united arab emirates ( uae ) government official urged germany european countries exert greater control mosques order prevent "terrorist" attacks. "one cannot simply open mosque invite everyone attend preach," sheikh nahyan bin mubarak al nahyan, uae's minister state tolerance, told german news agency dpa interview tuesday. nahyan bin mubarak said germany , like france, britain belgium , exerting enough control local mosques, according dpa. response, arab organisation human rights uk (aohr uk) flatly rejected minister's comments, saying engaged "incitement muslims europe". "if person frequents specific mosque carries criminal act, mean worship mosque support act mosque incites committing crimes," aohr uk said statement. added mosques europe subject strict regulations officials "perform mission accordance moderate teachings islam". interview, nahyan bin mubarak said uae "always offered train people", european country responded offer far. meanwhile, aohr uk warned european countries taking nahyan bin mubarak's offer, "so turn mosques europe security surveillance centres benefit uae". uae government strictly controls functioning mosques within country. source: al jazeera news europe middle east united arab emirates politics germany
renderpagesvideo('5649894265001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); showcasing transformative effect architecture lives growth communities, waf kicked berlin. exhibit tells story behind concept, creators hope improve lives. world architecture festival brings together 2,500 leading architects hundreds innovative projects display. year design decisions seem come desire improve life others create social equality. ingenuously designed refugee shelters affordable housing students uses unwanted spaces materials create sense community, ideas show exciting groundbreaking. new faces seen here, competing respected names field. overall winner set announced friday. al jazeera's charlie angela reports berlin. germany arts & culture europe
renderpagesvideo('5611223764001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); caracas, venezuela - months violent protests, streets venezuelan capital quieted recent weeks. now, government opposition focusing energy sunday's regional elections, hoping show strength ballots. "we vote," opposition leader henrique capriles told supporters. "the way problems sunday go vote en masse." won't easy. many opposition supporters disappointed, previously believed protests would led type change. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5610332656001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5610332656001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: venezuelan opposition raises concern vote rigging (2:30) "honestly, don't know think happen," manuel, singer caracas, told al jazeera. "i thought government would give demands - presidential elections, something else. every time new trick sleeve." one tricks manuel refers july vote constitutional assembly , legislative super body tasked drafting new constitution also power branches government. president nicolas maduro , way deepen revolution ex-president hugo chavez turn venezuela true socialist state. opposition, way taking power away opposition-controlled national assembly termination separation powers country. venezuelan opposition leader henrique capriles (c) speaks reporters friday [federico parra/ afp/getty images] world watching sunday's vote long overdue - taken place december 2016. opposition, elections chance win governorships test ground advance presidential elections scheduled next year. government aware world watching. "there international pressure government way trying save face saying dictatorship, elections," margarita lopez maya, professor university central caracas, told al jazeera. " "they destroyed institutions country." polling stations relocated friday night, capriles headed dozens voting centres miranda state reports many relocated. "this centre last night voting machines," said capriles one stops. "the military protecting now, blue, shut moved somewhere else ... nobody notified ones voting sunday." opinion: maduro chavez capriles believes part government strategy discourage people state traditionally voted opposition heading polls. government rejects accusation told international observers everything track sunday's vote. "relocating voting centres completely constitutional - nobody breaking law," adan chavez, brother late president, told al jazeera. "it announced electoral council. decided places incidents past decided move legal." key vote even though many traditional observers accredited, opposition believes witnesses voting centres play crucial role ensuring election results credible. also another issue. maduro said governors elected sunday "sworn subordinate themselves" constitutional assembly face dismissal. capriles supporters say attributions belong opposition-controlled congress, even though government stopped acknowledging long time ago. "the opposition likes talk democrats, forget part coup past, could would get rid constitutionally elected president. never acknowledged maduro," member united socialist party venezuela told al jazeera. truth nobody seems willing negotiate. spite irregularities, government insists election free fair. opposition hoping big gains, doubts way vote run demonstrators likely take streets again. source: al jazeera news author teresa bo politics venezuela latin america
opponents proposed peace deal colombian government farc campaign ''no'' vote day referendum held october 2, 2016 [ariana cubillos/the associated press] people colombia given choice october 2, 2016, approve peace deal designed bring world's longest continuous war end referendum. accord narrowly rejected 50.2 percent voters opposing deal. armed conflict colombian government revolutionary armed forces colombia (farc) spanned 50 years. war resulted deaths 220,000 colombians displaced nearly seven million people. despite desire peace, many felt agreement made havana, cuba, lenient towards farc. proposed accord, members confessed crimes would entitled reduced sentences. november 24, 2016, president juan manuel santos pushed revised peace agreement. since then, fragile peace maintained, farc fighters laying weapons starting families . still, concerns implementation peace deal, viability farc political party guaranteed seats congress threat coming right-wing paramilitary groups. new mother former farc fighter, ex-farc commander, peace worker senator reflect events last year consider challenges creating lasting peace. yorly ramirez, 26, former farc fighter medic age 13, said i'd join farc change situation thousands colombians facing. now, i'm 26 years old, i'm new mother boy called enders. pregnant before, difficult. wasn't safe children war. place raise camps. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5592034006001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_5592034006001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > witness: children farc: baby boom colombia's jungles (25:00) exposed bombing raids, paramilitaries would use children threaten you. wasn't going baby raised someone else. that's decided abortion. four months peace treaty signed, sent bogota part group journalists tell story post-conflict time. we're part new era, us guerrilla fighters. farc many things inconvenient. asked forgiveness last moment. hurts us also lost family members. hurts us bad. there's going back now. there's risk dying colombia still prepared accept us regular citizens. paramilitary could still kill doesn't agree [with deal]. firmly believe peace process, continue . keep working party. don't think would right walk away something i've spent much time fighting for. go home lift finger, mean, it's good i'm [my family] would years fighting go? luis emil sanabria, director redepaz (national network civic initiatives peace war) hearing [referendum's] result difficult moment. nothing could do. surveys said majority population favour [of 'yes' vote]. never expectation would rejected. since 1993, working peace, reconciliation. campaign support peace agreement. agreement followed one significant discussions government farc guerrillas ever. think public manipulated. luis emil sanabria course, counter-campaign favour 'no' vote, fundamentally based false truths, won. think public manipulated. but, time, peace deal gained significant support, almost 50 percent population, decided keep working. think little little, colombian people understanding magnitude agreement importance implementing it. year plebiscite still social justice colombia . colombian society needs know truth reconcile everything that's happened armed conflict. working reconcile ourselves, particularly regions closest conflict affected it. there's also concern happen next elections [to held march 2018]. centro democratico opposes peace agreements, don't want farc congress, feel victims received reparations, get power, peace agreement could risk. [farc] face challenges adjusting traditional democracy organisation follows path. democracy still gripped corruption regions drug trafficking takes place. eventually, think see peace agreement benefit everyone, economic terms social terms . various sections colombian society excluded benefits development economic growth. peace aid colombia's economic development. colombia still one under-developed countries world, everything concentrated cities. still question reparations, drug trafficking politics recognising farc political party. difficult moment colombia. alfredo rangel suarez, 62, senator, centro democratico political party intense, animated campaign leading referendum. centro democratico supported 'no' campaign, 'yes' campaign supported government, media, business owners many parts international community. campaign unequal. we've year implementing agreements rejected colombian people alfredo rangel suarez however, public voted 'no'. unfortunately, decision ignored government, we've year implementing agreements rejected colombian people. problem havana agreement gave impunity terrorist group. farc carried tens thousands crimes humanity; assassinations, massacres, kidnapping, disappearances, systematic rape. centro democratico doesn't object farc political party turned weapons fully demobilised, object members farc responsible crimes humanity don't spend time jail become politicians occupy seats congress enjoy situation complete impunity. president santos said farc agreed hand 14,000 weapons, they've handed back 8,000. presents risk national security colombia. political party colombia armed wing illicit trade provides huge economic resources. [farc] say need protect paramilitary groups paramilitaries don't exist colombia. demobilised, leaders prison. many became drug traffickers demobilised business farc eln guerrillas - they're partners. peace agreements designed reconcile country, can't they're step majority public opinion. agreements enforced colombia rejected public colombian people see agreements impunity, hasn't justice promises haven't fulfilled. robinson ramirez franco, 49, former farc commander plebiscite happened, bolivar square bogota. one knew was, going crazy thinking 'how many years war people say peace?' thought going win; couldn't believe it. thought 'what's happening? people ignorant; want war continue.' left farc eight years ago. travel four days three nights mountains without food. 13 years. much death leave. tired war. robinson ramirez franco bombardments started many friends died. one commanders died knew since 17, he'd whole time, since beginnings farc. much death leave. tired war. started foundation called nuvipades, stands nueva vida por los desmovilizados (new life demobilised) support demobilised guerrilla fighters keep strong heard, farc, government. represented havana; deserters couldn't speak, pardons us, traitors cause. girl whose parents farc guerrillas. mother died short time born grandparents took care her. father killed deserted return daughter. she's 14 years old, family trying get recognised victim conflict, nothing happened far. we've helped 180 ex-guerrillas. help families find employment, set businesses, also try build self-esteem teach respect responsibility. hopes future? don't many. capitalism reigns people always take arms. peace exist within current system. i'm tired wars; don't want fight. i've always wanted peace build new colombia. fight lasting peace story nation. source: al jazeera author charlotte mitchell colombia farc war & conflict latin america
renderpagesvideo('5617092223001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); months deadly protests, regional election ruling party, objection opposition, venezuela entered new political stage. president nicolas maduro's psuv party picked 18 23 governorships grabs last sunday's regional elections. win ruling socialists came shock opposition, projected win based early polling. opposition accused government election fraud - allegation nicolas maduro denies. opposition leaders also blamed way election conducted, including relocation 200 voting centres days polls opened. calling audit results, opposition leaders boycotted swearing-in ceremony elected governors wednesday, saying would attend session new national assembly, body consider unconstitutional. instead, said wanted sworn legislative councils. "they pledge god respective legislative councils," opposition leaders said statement last thursday. government agreed audit transparency's sake, maduro maintained election results people. october 15 elections product "conscience people have", president said televised press conference last week. added government despite called "imperial forces" launching "psychological, political economic war" government. maduro repeatedly warned "whoever sworn subordinated national constituent assembly able assume role". public address friday, maduro added "somehow learn ... recognise results win". five newly-elected governors opposition agreed begin consultation process sectors society decide whether sworn national constituent assembly. regional elections opposition coalition's (mud) response results revealed deep divisions within ranks. 'ambivalent discourse' day results announced, several candidates leaders opposition broke established narrative, conceding defeat despite official coalition line elections fraudulent . according local media, henri falcon, current state governor lara, lost chavista deputy, carmen melendez, said "one goes election win lose ... lost, it's simple, [now] accept it". alejandro feo la cruz, governor carabobo, also acknowledged defeat rafael lacava. outgoing governor amazonas region, liborio guarulla, part opposition, blamed mud's decision run candidate amazonas opposition's loss. "for 17 years, amazonas [region] walked indigenous people, democracy, mud caracas ended this, imposing candidate representing interests," guarualla said twitter. 17 años amazonas caminó en proyecto de ls pueblos indígenas la democracia mud caracas acabó con ella imponiendo candidato x sus intereses — liborio guarulla (@liborioguarulla) october 17, 2017 prior election, vente venezuela, opposition movement led maria corina machado, detached coalition abstained participating elections, citing machado called illegitimate process. machado, instead, called protests. opposition leader enrique ochoa antich blamed machado leaders opposition's defeat. "thanks maria corina aristiguieta: abstentionist preaching, lost miranda, carabobo lara," antich said twitter. "a huge favour government." gracias, ma.corina aristiguieta: causa de su prédica abstencionista, perdimos miranda, carabobo lara. favor q le hicieron al gobierno! — enrique ochoa antich (@eochoa_antich) october 18, 2017 javier buenrostro, professor national autonomous university mexico , emphasised deep divisions within opposition major reason defeat last sunday. "the opposition ambivalent discourse," buenrostro told al jazeera. "for me, main reason explains defeat right, fought institutional battle, called votes, time called insurrections streets," explained. within opposition agreed. chuo torrealba, former executive secretary mud, quoted local media saying one within opposition ranks capable leading country. "a campaign made politicians politicians, ones called [for protests the] street, began call votes ... forgot issues," torrealba said regional election results announced. others, opposition's loss october 15 represents deeper problems within coalition analysts supporters say leaders yet acknowledge. "the ruling party bathed democracy ... ones realise crisis living, representatives opposition," saverio vivas, politician sympathises opposition, told al jazeera. "people disregarded incoherent behaviour they've shown," vivas added. leonardo bruzail, opposition supporter, also said venezuelans "lost trust opposition leaders". "what facing disaster, experiencing institutional, political, economic, social crisis. don't know recover this," bruzail told al jazeera. 'these close elections' highlighting overall percentages votes regional elections, buenrostro also noted still valid political space opposition . "there isn't major difference votes, close elections, territorial control hard vote gave government triumph," said. 11 million people voted, 52 percent supported government candidates, 45 percent supported opposition, according national electoral council. "venezuela dictatorship many want sell, democracy authoritarian tendencies, space opposition," buenrostro said. "ultimately, people decided vote violence ... violence identified faction opposition." venezuela dictatorship many want sell, democracy authoritarian tendencies, space opposition. professor buenrostro, analyst uncertainty venezuela uncertainty direction opposition coalition mounts, new threats new sanctions various international players, worry economy, already suffering high inflation food medicine shortages, continue aggravated . "the government improved position weakened opposition ... however, sacrificed nation ... money spent political campaigns intensify situation," ronal rodriguez, researcher venezuelan observatory university rosario colombia, told al jazeera. venezuela's gross domestic product (gdp) expected contract six percent next year, shrinking estimated 12 percent 2017, according imf estimations. expressing concerns allegations election "irregularities", members european union said examining "appropriate measures" help resolve political crisis country. united states also considering possible measure venezuela's oil imports, one main sources income country. lima group, formed argentina , brazil, canada, chile, colombia , costa rica, guatemala, honduras, mexico, panama , paraguay peru, hold meeting thursday canada intention accentuating pressure maduro's regime. rodriguez, possibility new sanctions, combined last sunday's result, means government respond economic deterioration also new pressures within outside country. "they [maduro's government] respond challenges imply economic deterioration, social deterioration led departure millions venezuelans," rodriguez said. "an immediate reaction [last sunday's] results people leaving country especially countries like colombia." source: al jazeera news author elizabeth melimopoulos elections politics venezuela latin america
guanipa refused acknowledge national assembly sworn governor state zulia [reuters] venezuela's opposition facing "deep political crisis", analysts say, fractures within coalition emerged following surprise loss month's regional elections. four five opposition governors venezuela accepted elected posts last week defiance opposition democratic unity coalition (mud). four opposition politicians broke official mud line chose acknowledge national constituent assembly, aligned president maduro's party, sworn governors. mud, expected win majority october 5 elections, refused accept result polls, calling elections fraudulent - allegation government denies. additionally, mud maintained national constituent assembly "illegitimate" called winning candidates refuse sworn body. maduro's ruling pusv party took 18 23 seats grabs. opposition candidate maintain mud's official stance juan pablo guanipa, governor-elect oil-rich zulia state. thursday, national assembly approved decree hold new election state. guanipa stressed decision sworn national assembly "was easy, faced dictatorship forces us act conviction, strength consistency ". time, said aware decision would bring dire consequences. "i emotionally, rationally, spiritually prepared … consequence result actions taking," said. decision winning candidates accept national assembly exposed deepening divisions within opposition, analysts argue given momentum nicolas maduro party. {articleguid} "these results generated deep political crisis within opposition," ramon pinango, sociologist analyst, said. "the government seize hours confusion advance political power," told al jazeera. national assembly thursday called local mayoral elections december. government expected call elections next year, some, including pinango, argue maduro taking advantage opposition's fractures, believing success regional elections. political confrontation mud refused acknowledge national assembly, overrode opposition-run national congress july. sworn national assembly accepting results october 5 elections, governors states tachira, merida, nueva esparta anzoategui broke opposition's official line, experts say showed fracture within coalition. "the chavismo managed win critical elections, also managed put opposition crisis leading electoral confrontation," marco terugi, author political analyst, explained. many mud supporters viewed governors' actions "sellout". popular opposition leader, henrique capriles, broke away coalition four governors, part democratic action party (ad), sworn in. capriles said would part mud long henry ramos allup, leader ad, one biggest parties within mud, member. sin duda vamos hacia una nueva unidad!en las peores crisis circunstancias siempre surgen oportunidades!por encima siempre venezuela! — henrique capriles r. (@hcapriles) october 23, 2017 translation: "we going see new unity. worst crises circumstances, opportunities always crop up." andres velasquez, opposition candidate lost bolivar state also condemned four leaders sworn assembly. 1/ 3.- gobernadores que se arrastraron ante ilegitima e inconstitucional anc, merecen el mayor repudio nacional. — andres velasquez (@andresvelasqz) october 23, 2017 translation: "the governors crawled went illegitimate unconstitutional anc, deserve greater national repudiation." ad's allup lamented reactions, saying "many see golden opportunity shoot democratic action". added: "it pains instead facing together crisis country in, shoot other." capriles accused allup maduro's chosen "opposition candidate" 2018 presidential election. "he obviously candidate nicolas maduro wants, maduro finally found official opposition candidate," capriles said. opposition leader's comments came maduro said press conference would "wait for" allup 2018. two models many believe struggle within opposition goes much deeper. {articleguid} rachid yasbek, opposition member coordinator first justice party bolivar state, told al jazeera two competing models within coalition. "we model defends old way politics, seeks accommodate ... willing give everything country," added, referring opposition leaders called near-daily street protests earlier year. yasbek first justice party believe protests real way bring change. "our duty country fight democracy, party (first justice), leaders like capriles, juan pablo [guanipa] fighting change," yasbek said. analysts believe coalition breaking away protest model moving toward one willing speak government. javier buenrostro, professor national autonomous university mexico, told al jazeera opposition already seeing transition away supported protests allup, many believe willing talk government. "what seeing fracture right, transition henry ramos [allup] within coalition," buenrostro said. added allup "will opportunity lead opposition". said sure opposition leader win 2018. buenrostro added, however, "i make [allup] competitive, maybe give chance work within framework 'pacted' democracy". deep economic crisis political crisis escalates, country also gripped rising economic crisis. lima group, formed argentina , brazil, canada, chile, colombia , costa rica, guatemala, honduras, mexico, panama , paraguay peru, held meeting thursday canada discuss venezuela's crisis. statement, group said: "child malnutrition stands 11.4 percent, equivalent state crisis according world standards, primary school dropout rate increased 45 percent, cost basic food basket increased 343 percent last year". {articleguid} many 85 every 100 medicines available , diseases believed eradicated, malaria, increased 76 percent. opposition blames maduro economic policies humanitarian crisis, government's supporters say opposition parties offer alternatives. "i don't think opposition parties offering real alternative bring change," zumira cardozo, government support, told al jazeera. "we reached point, due economic war imposed government", added. many also believe opposition paying high price failed strategy. "to incoherent opposition's biggest failure, say something today, something else tomorrow, weakened political reach," sociologist pinango explained. "now forced change, come better strategy," said. source: al jazeera news author elizabeth melimopoulos politics venezuela latin america
image late revolutionary hero ernesto 'che' guevara seen gate public building havana, cuba [ivan alvarado/reuters] fifty years ago, october 9, 1967, ernesto "che" guevara - argentine-born doctor cuban revolutionary hero - executed bolivia part us-orchestrated plot rid world pernicious anti-imperialist influence. given guevara popular symbolic ever half century later, seems us government safely file project category "oops". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5539874898001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5539874898001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: castro guevara face face (2:36) pageloadedsuccessfully course, americans long denied responsibility killing - claim neatly dismantled american lawyers michael ratner michael steven smith book "who killed che? cia got away murder". cuban-american cia agent felix rodriguez, present guevara's demise bolivian hamlet la higuera, helped promote us line fatal decision bolivians' doing. rodriguez has, furthermore, vociferously objected romanticisation man says nothing "an assassin" "enjoyed killing people" - pretty rich allegation coming someone also volunteered assassinate fidel castro who, ratner smith note, referred dominican republic's former blood-drenched dictator rafael trujillo "so-called tyrant". 'most complete human being' writing washington post 1997, documentary filmmaker saul landau described guevara "tough disciplinarian impassively dispatched traitors [but] also refused let enemy wounded go untreated" - man built hospitals schoolrooms, whose "love unknown masses" drove entirely sacrifice physical comfort pursuit society. french philosopher jean-paul sartre praised guerrilla leader "not intellectual, also complete human age". read more: che guevara fidel castro - revolutionary friends yet "assassin" card continues played plenty folks, many dodgy right-wing track records. years ago discovered us-based urban outfitters decided appropriate che's image t-shirt merchandise - since know us clothing corporations fervently support anti-capitalist revolution - company ceo harangued dubious human rights group "lionising murderer" "bloody ideology". never mind urban outfitters far many entities also known mass-market products emblazoned american flag - symbol system sort takes cake terms ideological bloodiness. che wasn't superhuman, - perhaps they've never really able kill him. time guevara's murder, example, us engaged spectacularly bloody affair known vietnam war, several million people ultimately eliminated. weren't enough, new yorker reported last year "[s]ince end war, 1975, forty thousand vietnamese killed u.x.o. [unexploded ordnance]". it's worth emphasising, too, guevara's abhorrence yankee imperialism didn't materialise nowhere. personally witnessed 1954 cia coup guatemala democratically elected president, jacobo arbenz, stepped toes us banana company, united fruit, enemies guatemalan democracy. ensuing decades-long civil war - us , usual played, minor role - 200,000 people massacred. guevara went confront us power various international nodes. cuba , helped overthrow former us dictatorial buddy fulgencio batista prevailing arrangement gleefully corrupt oppression. read more: cuba's changes - would che say? congo, john gerassi wrote los angeles times, guevara endeavoured "help remnants nationalist movement prime minister patrice lumumba, murdered connivance belgian cia agents". bolivia, alas, empire caught him. gone man declared, "with risk appearing ridiculous, true revolutionary guided strong feelings love". real danger decades since che's death, us proceeded business usual, wreaking havoc across globe behalf elite capital. country sorely lacking human emotions department clear health arms industry physical economic punishment regularly inflicted upon human bodies afghanistan mexico . helpful sound bites us political establishment shed additional ideological light - response madeleine albright, former us ambassador united nations secretary state, question reports half million children died thanks us sanctions iraq : "we think price worth it". sure, "strong feelings love" would come particularly handy right - assure reality doesn't us president donald trump says is. final letter guevara wrote children, given event killed, advised: "remember revolution important one us, own, worthless." executioners certainly weren't impression guevara "worthless", real danger posed capitalist order, fact, lay example interhuman solidarity. end, che wasn't superhuman, - perhaps they've never really able kill him. belen fernandez author imperial messenger: thomas friedman work, published verso. contributing editor jacobin magazine. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author belen fernandez belen fernandez author imperial messenger: thomas friedman work, published verso. contributing editor jacobin magazine. @ mariabelen_fdez politics history latin america
move national indigenous congress move towards decolonisation politics, political life, write mignolo vazquez [reuters] first nations mexico launched political campaign surprised many widely misunderstood. face horror 215,000 deaths last 10 years 500 years oppression, first nations, articulated national indigenous congress (cni), launched political initiative constituting indigenous council government (cig), whose speaker, maria de jesus patricio martinez, registered candidate national presidential election. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5464129174001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5464129174001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: mexico's first indigenous woman presidential candidate talks al jazeera (2:36) pageloadedsuccessfully critiques established political spectrum loud: patronising, misogynic racist attacks patricio martinez, calls inclusion cni proposal ongoing political processes political parties. criticism evinced western political perspectives bankrupt. misinterpretation criticism? mainly two reasons: first, fact new initiative taken 23 years disqualification rejection electoral procedures national system government ezln (zapatistas). ezln indeed forms governance, known juntas de buen gobierno (boards good government) . then, ezln, form part cni, decides participate new initiative? second, assumption maría de jesus patricio martinez, cig speaker, like individual candidate competition among political parties, spite fact cni zapatistas refuse participate political party. read more: mexico violence peaks 2,200 murders june project cni difficult understand respect? us indicted celebrate western modernity, market democracy, meritocracy, 'good life' consumption development; another option: decolonial option open door 'indigeneity large'. reason lies arrogant ignorance distinguishes western notions institutional politics. first nations' concept political derived neither greece modern european-centered version machiavelli locke marx. cni participation national presidential election appropriates tools modern/colonial state advance project. initiative indigenous, "indigenous" population also us share seven ethico-political principles political platform. obedecer mandar (to obey command) representar suplantar (to represent supplant) servir servirse (to serve, serve ) convencer vencer (to convince win) bajar subir (to go go up) proponer imponer (to propose impose) construir destruir (to construct destroy) political project based principles may sound romantic some. us indicted celebrate western modernity, market democracy, meritocracy, "good life" consumption development; another option: decolonial option open door "indigeneity large". national indigenous congress agenda return past. contrary, manifests enacts need decolonise politics. first nations intervention political life history largely ignored. read more: zapatistas break silence slam mexico elite junction, find first sign discomfort political establishment: difficulty recognise accept uni-national state monocultural democracy untenable. second sign discomfort political philosophy zapatistas congreso nacional indigena. "to govern obeying" powerful philosophical maxim subsisted erasure coloniality. "to rule obeying" defies pyramidal structure western political governance govern obey, spite fact public officers called "public servants". third sign distress imagine governed indigenous woman, maría de jesus patricio martinez. indeed unimaginable society ruled uni-national monocultural patriarchal state supporting supported capitalist economy would accept project. maria de jesus patricio martinez primarily candidate, speaker (vocera) indigenous council government, formed 200 councillors, designated communal assemblies across country. cig required prior consultation included 523 communities 25 states country belonging 43 indigenous peoples. council made 73 members, 42 men, 31 women, also proposed assemblies accepted cni plenary. legitimacy council undeniable shows communal governance work. political party legitimacy. strategy national indigenous congress resignifying notion political. enacting politics interested taking power. interested electoral process competition ground parties see gets power wins privilege ruling others. view, move national indigenous congress move towards decolonisation politics, political life. read more: disease, discrimination dignity yes, partaking national electoral process, utilising anti-systemic strategy capable revealing fundamental flaws. electoral process turned tool delinking western/liberal presuppositions, delinking representative democracy. relinking preserved 500 years colonialism: 300 years imperial rules 200 years internal colonialism independence formation mexican nation-state. delinking simply act resistance, also implies enactment radically different political life. see initiative call "indigenise politics". indigenising mean essentialising, contrary, indigenising means delink abstraction representative politics, abstraction individualised consumer/voter. indigenising political means taking responsibility, enacting politics positionality engaging well-being community communities belong, city countryside. cni handing invitation reclaim freedom taken us apparatus representation state. indigenise ourselves, relinquish desire weakness governed? exit apathy representational life regain freedom act others? decolonisation politics mean gather people around one political project, national monocultural project. decolonise political means celebrate difference: "to able host difference other" (esteva 1996). maría de jesus patricio martinez embodying hope decolonial option, hope re-emergence silenced, denigrated, made dispensable project modernisation, progress development. carries testimony hope ancestral voices able flourish politics "indigenisation", taking responsibility towards earth towards communal others. state politics long ignored indigenous wretched. cni competing market representation. moment whose lives made dispensable system enter political life, exercise freedom political beyond state. know emergence voices assemblies, every organised community reclaiming freedom acting others, bear torch hope face silencing wall modern colonial structures racism, patriarchy capitalism. process launched cni actively "walking" myriad geographies disavowed mexico . cni activating conversations, political speeches. "walking" means togetherness making communal. engaged reconstruction communal state (from left right) want ignore annihilate. cni voceras voceros engaged enormous task weaving communal country, smallest, vulnerable resilient. construction alternative worlds meaning already taking place, much beyond election. cni, including indigenous nonindigenous people following lead, enacting politics listening marginalised silenced modern/colonial order. campaign entering cacophony modernising utopias, development promises, rather focusing healing colonial wound. campaign one searching convince self-interested client-voters, one enabling coalition building, learning each-other other. campaign one managing natural resources caring earth. face politics representation, cni enacting politics relationality. walter mignolo william h wannamaker distinguished professor director center global studies humanities, duke university. recent book,the darker side western modernity: global futures, decolonial options (2011, duke up) third trilogy includes darker side renaissance: literacy, territoriality colonization (1995, michigan up) local histories/global designs: coloniality, subaltern knowledges border thinking (2000, princeton up). rolando vazquez' work dedicated develop decolonial ways thinking, teaching learning. associate professor sociology diversity fellow university college roosevelt university utrecht, netherlands. coordinates walter mignolo annual middelburg decolonial summer school since 2010. gloria wekker et al wrote report diversity commission university amsterdam. last five years, developing joint pedagogical initiatives universidad de la tierra oaxaca, mexico. views expressed article authors' necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. authors walter mignolo walter mignolo william h wannamaker distinguished professor director center global studies humanities, duke university. rolando vazquez rolando vazquez assistant professor sociology university college roosevelt utrecht university. mexico first nations politics latin america
february 3, 2012 photo, people dance funk 'baile' cantagalo, rio de janeiro, brazil [ap] year, samba, brazil's iconic widely acclaimed musical style, celebrating 100th birthday. 100 years ago, persecuted criminalised music former slaves sons. early 20th century, playing samba synonymous criminal, "malandro". many "sambistas" persecuted arrested vargas dictatorship 1930s 1940s. yet rhythm captivating despite persecution, stylised version samba played parties "elite" weren't threatened police raids. time, people forgot music came became one well-known cherished symbols brazil . today, another popular music style, brazilian funk, facing risk criminalised way. like samba, funk born favelas. although songs praise crime drug trafficking, especially funk style known "proibidao" ( "strongly prohibited" literal translation), funk deals wide range themes, love struggles associated day-to-day life favelas desire rich powerful. many ways, similar american hip-hop. people believe funk dangerous brazilian society recently taken action officially "ban" popular music style. members popular facebook group called "funk garbage" collected 20,000 signatures presented bill senate would, accepted, criminalise funk music. former football star senator state rio de janeiro, romario faria, chosen rapporteur proposal. public discussion issue, hosted commission human rights participatory legislation (cdh) senate, took place september 13 . start scope proposed ban ambiguous. nobody knew opponents music style wanted ban - funk parties, concerts sale related material. proposition stated signatories hoping alert brazilian government "the public health threat" funk music allegedly posing children, teenagers families. senator romario faria concluded september 14 criminalisation musical genre legally defensible "because right free expression thought, guaranteed federal constitution". senators commission agreed romario and, unanimously, rejected proposal banish criminalise funk september 21. {articleguid} people presumed senate would never accept proposal anyway, still spoke strongly it, viewed proposal yet another racist attempt criminalise culture lifestyle living favelas. danilo cymrot, doctor criminology university sao paulo (usp) explained interview bbc view attempts criminalise funk music "arbitrary". "we previously witnessed attempts criminalise blacks, poor people favela residents," said. "sambistas associated vagrancy, called vagabonds." anitta, considered queen brazilian funk, said twitter account supporters ban funk "22 thousand uninformed people need leave comfort homes know little country". controversy surrounding funk music come end rejection proposal. opposing funk music still say style promotes disintegration family encourages drug trafficking. argue "bailes funk" street parties funk music played, drug consumption irresponsible sexual encounters prevalent. say minors freely attend parties get involved criminal immoral behaviour. parties exist participants certainly consume drugs. also true many parties, raves nightclubs. drug consumption define funk music, one diverse styles brazilian music scene today. funk indeed sensual. many funk songs lyrics describe erotic encounters funk enthusiasts participate erotically charged dance moves. but, course, said several musical styles, including samba, many consider brazil's national music style. journalist thiago cardim, writing judao, one leading arts culture websites brazil, explained, funk different musical styles known loved world. like american rap mexican narcocorrido, brazilian funk also mainstream version controversial sub-genres. worth remembering rock music also faced prejudice organised banning attempts past. fans considered satanists, outcasts drug addicts. many music genres faced prejudice early years, need understand campaign funk brazil something sinister harmless conservative reaction new music style. yet another manifestation racism poor, black brazilians living favelas rio de janeiro. racist attempts ban criminalise music style brazilians enjoy certainly continue future. brazilian funk, like samba, stay. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. listening post brazil: media, monopolies political manipulations function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5570263619001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} author raphael tsavkko garcia raphael tsavkko garcia journalist phd candidate human rights university deusto spain. latin america brazil arts & culture
fact mexican people trust politicians hardly surprising, writes salomon [sergio ortiz/itzel plascencia lopez/gabriel ortiz guerrero] 1:25pm 19 september 2017, powerful 7.1 magnitude earthquake tested stamina strength millions mexicans - country's authorities - core. dozens buildings collapsed, leaving nearly 300 dead, scores injured thousands homeless scared go back apartments. mexico turned something apocalyptic film. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5587672197001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5587672197001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: mexico: quake search continues, thousands left homeless (1:48) pageloadedsuccessfully tragedy takes place, collective adrenaline kicks in. country knows better wait authorities take charge, initial panic quickly turns overwhelming sense collective unity strength. one never seen before. walked back home roma neighbourhood (one affected areas city) office - still shaken happened, trying check friends ok wondering building still standing - saw city come call home transform eyes. saw utter destruction desperation hundreds thousands people springing action almost unexplainable unity. builders, office workers, students shops clerks ran collapsed buildings sift rubble desperate search survivors. tools poured donations, bare hands. human chains people passing buckets rubble would become common sight across city. read more: earthquake kills 220 central mexico parts, people began cooking; others set collection centres donations. improvised volunteer-run shelters sprang like flowers; cyclists became food distributors, taxis free. president enrique pena nieto opportunity show people government care. badly missed it. three days earthquake changed lives, anybody walking destroyed cordoned-off streets mexico city's affected neighbourhoods would hard-pressed encounter several collection centres per block, strangers offering food fresh water, scores men women armed helmets shovels everywhere. fanciest parks town become tent cities. formerly chaotic donation centre, spent many hours day earthquake hit mexico, turned impressively organised operation. area clearly marked according type donation - water, meals, food supplies, blankets, tents, medicines, toys. lines volunteers loading cars, bikes trucks whatever told needed parts city across country. volunteers shouting instructions carefully writing donations coming out. them, including myself, never done before. never humanitarian disaster - let alone seen city collapse around - young remember 1985 earthquake left least 10,000 dead city knees , ironically exactly 32 years day new disaster. looked around various centres helped thought that, perhaps, democracy community about. people scribbled words "help" solidarity messages every single bottle water bag food donated want government steal things take credit donations, writes salomon [sergio ortiz/itzel plascencia lopez/gabriel ortiz guerrero] week, mexico surprised me. people inspired core. stories compassion example world. old woman travelled town 60 kilometres away mexico city make sandwiches rescuers could "sit tv watch destruction happening without anything it". 12-year-old boy joined dad loading boxes clearly heavy onto truck destined remote communities, away attention. architect had, space hour, become expert organising bottles water. therapist come way help heroic rescue dogs relax battled seemingly endless days cold nights relentless mexican rain. rescue workers, doctors nurses, drivers, victims forgetting suffering joining efforts help others. one scene particularly stayed - disturbing one. read more: mexico earthquake - victims complain slow response every donation centre, groups people gathered around tables floor, frantically scribbling big indelible ink markers every single bottle water bag food donated words "help" solidarity messages. "we government doesn't steal things. don't take credit political advantage," people told time again. fact mexican people trust politicians hardly surprising. government would use tragedy political advantage is, put simply, repugnant. mexico's deep problems - corruption, massive inequality, soaring crime, shocking levels disappearances violence women systematic lack justice, name - end rescue efforts finish people finally find new place call home. president enrique pena nieto opportunity show people government care. badly missed it. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5588717857001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5588717857001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: hope fades search continues mexico earthquake survivors (1:43) pageloadedsuccessfully volunteers across city acted rescue workers, organised donations ensured need helped, accusations government corruption spread like wildfire. people accused authorities deploying professional rescue workers late, relying volunteers run shelters, failing distribute donations , preventing ordinary citizens reaching living remote areas. investigations demanded review deeply corrupt real estate business, blamed allowing construction unstable structures city prone earthquakes . today marks week since earthquake changed, again, mexico's face. today also third anniversary still unresolved enforced disappearance 43 students state guerrero. going take lot grandiose speeches break deep mistrust people power. pena nieto should, least, try taking leaf mexican citizens' book. josefina salomon journalist based mexico city, reporting human rights issues across americas. views expressed article author's necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial policy. author josefina salomon josefina salomon journalist based mexico city, reporting human rights issues across americas. mexico earthquake politics latin america
latest developments venezuela since march 29 : november 13 - november 19 creditors rule venezuela state oil firm pdvsa default. thursday, committee creditors ruled venezuelan state oil company pdvsa defaulted debt. china confident venezuela handle debt issue. "we believe venezuela's government people ability properly handle debt issue," chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said. venezuela borrowed billions dollars russia china, primarily oil-for-loan deals. ex-prosecutor wants maduro tried hague. venezuela's former chief prosecutor thursday asked international criminal court capture try president nicolas maduro top officials crimes humanity. november 6 - november 12 government opposition resume dialogue effort. venezuela's government opposition resume efforts hold dialogue, third attempt year. information minister jorge rodriguez said twitter, "the dialogue continues november 15 dominican republic." new sanctions. thursday united states slapped sanctions targeting 10 officials said engaged election irregularities. eu impose arms embargo. european union ambassadors agreed ban sale weapons surveillance technologies venezuela. october 30 - november 5 opposition leader seeks refuge. sunday, venezuelan lawmaker freddy guevara sought refuge chilean ambassador's residence caracas. opposition local media said sebin (bolivarian national intelligence service) surrounded guevara's house weekend. opposition parties boycott elections. three venezuela's opposition parties: justice first, popular democratic action, announced monday boycott municipal elections december protest election system say biased, instead focus demanding reforms election board anticipation next year's presidential poll. october 23-29 venezuela, pdvsa bonds rise. bonds issued venezuela pdvsa rose price state oil company began process making payments 2020 bonds, easing short-term worries default. moscow restructure venezuela's debt. russia said friday generally agreed venezuela terms restructure total $3bn debts moscow, including postponement debt repayment. venezuelan officials arrested u.s. probe . spanish authorities arrested former venezuelan deputy minister three former executives venezuelan state companies alleged links money laundering international corruption, part us probe, according spain's civil guard. new governor dismissed. newly elected opposition governor venezuela's western zulia state, juan pablo guanipa, dismissed thursday local state legislature refused swear loyalty constituent assembly, also known national assembly. lima group calls sanction. lima group, denounced maduro's government, agreed steps may needed isolate country. canada , member group, said need "concrete steps" taken isolate government venezuela international community canada mulling second round sanctions venezuelan officials. government crackdown corruption. orlando chacin, top executive venezuela's pdvsa, ten oil executives arrested part government's crackdown corruption. accusations include overpricing non-execution planned projects. opposition demoralised. venezuela's young opposition supporters demoralised shock election defeat suffered month. october 21, 2017 maduro warns repeat elections venezuelan state elections may repeated five states opposition governors-elect continue refuse sworn national assembly. authorities mandated elected governors participate ceremony pro-government constituent assembly, five opposition winners take part. "anyone wants governor recognise constituent national assembly; otherwise elections repeated states assembly recognised," maduro said. october 18, 2017 venezuelans defiant face us travel ban president donald trump's third attempt ban travel us several countries blocked, hours executive order go full effect number countries, including venezuela . ban would apply members government, military police, intelligence services anyone could involved human rights abuses. us says sanctions destined hurt government, people venezuela remain defiant latest threat us. october 17, 2017 nicolas maduro defends sunday's vote "[on sunday] made feat, sons daughters chavez did," maduro told international press conference tuesday. responding accusations fraud, maduro said tuesday venezuela's electoral process "the audited secure world", adding "nobody commit fraud". "we met [with opposition] 100 times, evidence," maduro said. "however empire given order, recognise victory ... respond this." "they [the opposition] capacity make decisions, know washington answering calls," added. october 16, 2017 opposition rejects results venezuela's opposition coalition refused recognise results sunday's gubernatorial elections. democratic unity's (mud) election campaign chief, gerardo blyde, demanded complete audit 23 governor races called candidates lead "street activities" monday. president nicolas maduro approved audit ballots, said government scored "emphatic victory" rivals. maduro also criticised international media coverage election: "i've tuning bbc, cnn others, today's elections completely ignored". "this one best electoral processes, audited several times parties political actors," said alfredo arevalo, ecuadorian representative council electoral experts latin america october 15, 2017 ruling party wins landslide regional elections president nicolas maduro's socialist party landslide 17 23 states venezuela's regional elections, according official results announced national elections council. opposition democratic union roundtable (mud) coalition, earlier said upcoming results "suspicious", took five states, said council. regional elections, today venezuelans go ballot box sunday vote regional elections, postponed since december 2016. ruling socialist party currently controls 20 23 state governorships could chance opposition democratic unity coalition score victory, according polls. two hundred voting centres relocated security grounds. october 13, 2017 pdvsa delays debt payment payment $121m interest debt owed venezuela's state-owned oil company pdvsa, scheduled october 12, delayed missing interest payment, oil company entering grace period 30 days lenders rather defaulting. also, first week november, pdvsa must pay another $1.1bn capital payment interest, according local consulting firm. thirty-three magistrates operate us thirty-three magistrates venezuela's top court sworn ceremony us friday begin operating exile. supreme tribunal justice (tsj), designated national assembly opposition holds majority, took oath office headquarters organization american states (oas) regional bloc washington. magistrates begin work october 13 tsj called supreme court exile. ortega plans visit us venezuela's former chief prosecutor luisa ortega said team supplied us evidence "compromising" top officials administration president nicolas maduro . "the prosecutors colombia ... meeting prosecutors united states countries exchange information," ortega told reporters meeting united nations rights boss zeid ra'ad al-hussein geneva. "we've supplied mix evidence compromises high-level government officials," said, adding planned visit united states. us maintain sanctions president donald trump said friday united states would maintain sanctions cuba venezuela restore political religious freedom. "we're confronting rogue regimes iran north korea challenging communist dictatorship cuba socialist oppression venezuela," trump told conservative political conference. "and lift sanctions repressive regimes restore political religious freedom people." october 10, 2017 'historic' satellite launch china venezuelan president nicolas maduro monday celebrated china's launch south american nation's satellite "historic event" key furthering national independence satellite launched orbit little past midnight caracas time monday, china's satellite launch centre jiuquan, northwest gansu province. satellite, named honour venezuelan-born independence hero antonio jose de sucre, third satellite two countries jointly launched space, chinese local media reported. october 08, 2017 maduro thanks trump making 'famous' "it's honour head empire mentions every day," said 54-year-old president. "that means i'm something right," added. saying venezuela become corrupt repressive dictatorship, us government widened individual sanctions top officials including maduro also prohibited new debt dealings caracas. october 06, 2017 opposition release inflation reports inflation venezuela's crisis-hit economy 536.2 percent nine months september opposition-controlled national assembly said. government stopped releasing price data year ago, congress published figures since january close private economists' estimates. government says victim "economic war", including speculation hoarding, pro-opposition businessmen. 'ballot sheet unfair october 15' venezuela's opposition said pro-government election board seeking skew regional elections favour president nicolas maduro's party including names candidates defeated primaries ballot. democratic unity coalition targeting winning 18 governorships, government trumpeting election proof growing criticism venezuela become dictatorship. maduro hails relations turkey president nicolas maduro hailed new era relations turkey, welcomed counterpart erdogan ankara palace. "we want open new era relations venezuela turkey," maduro said joint statement erdogan talks. "we want sketch new era world. multi-polar world everyone find place." commenting strife venezuela, erdogan said "nothing superior people" warned "external intervention" usually made problems worse. "we hope venezuela find solution problems sense, dialogue reconciliation," added. october 04, 2017 payments russia may restructured venezuelan president nicolas maduro said wednesday country's debt payments russia might restructured. russia's largest oil producer rosneft buying growing volume venezuelan crude products extending loans maduro's government. rosneft said august made around $6bn pre-payments venezuelan state oil company pdvsa immediate plans make advance payments soon. october 02, 2017 maduro approval rises 23 percent venezuelan president nicolas maduro's approval rating rose 23 percent september, 6 percentage points 17 percent july, according poll local firm datanalisis. rebound followed several rounds sanctions us president donald trump's administration well sharp drop-off four months violent anti-government protests. nearly 52 percent respondents opposed trump administration sanctions came response creation legislative super body called constituent assembly. october 01, 2017 venezuela criticises spain catalonia venezuelan president nicolas maduro slammed president mariano rajoy trying halt banned independence referendum catalonia, saying leader hypocrite supporting venezuela's opposition cracking dissent home. venezuela's opposition, turn, accused maduro hypocrisy attacking rajoy, saying venezuelan leader violently clamped four months protests. september 30, 2017 white house accuses venezuela human trafficking white house said ordered iran, venezuela, democratic republic congo (drc), equatorial guinea, south sudan, sudan added us list countries accused failing crack human trafficking. 2000 us law, us provide non-humanitarian, non-trade-related foreign assistance country fails comply minimum standards eliminating trafficking making efforts so. september 26, 2017 opposition declines dialogue government venezuela's opposition said join scheduled talks president nicolas maduro's government, insisting talks distract country's economic crisis. "negotiation go waste time, look someone's face, rather venezuelans immediate solutions," opposition leader henrique capriles told reporters. september 18, 2017 trump warns venezuela 'collapsing' president donald trump warned monday venezuela "collapsing", suggesting united states may take additional steps restore democracy. trump told latin american allies gathered sidelines un general assembly president nicolas "maduro defied people" guilty "disastrous rule" may necessitate punitive measures. "the venezuelan people starving. country collapsing," said. meeting attended colombia's juan manuel santos, brazil's michel temer, panama's juan carlos varela argentina's vice president gabriela michetti. september 16, 2017 maduro says talks produce deal, opposition call 'show' president nicolas maduro predicted new foreign-led effort mediate venezuela's political crisis would produce deal soon, opposition said would accept another time-wasting "show". sides sent delegations meet dominican republic's president week possible start negotiated solution. "after weeks conversations, close agreement political co-existence peace sovereignty," maduro said speech friday. "we're near." opposition insisted talks santo domingo "exploratory" said would proceed without firm guarantees democratic change. want date next presidential election, due end 2018, guarantees free fair, plue freedom hundreds jailed activists, foreign humanitarian corridor, respect opposition-led congress. "if don't iron-clad guarantees ... everything leading democratic change ... won't take step more," julio borges, leader opposition-led congress, told reporters saturday, recalling failed 2016 vatican-led talks. "we want avoid repeat last year's show." september 12, 2017 maduro accepts talks offer venezuela opposition venezuelan president nicolas maduro said tuesday government prepared meet opposition talks, offering glimpse breakthrough political standoff marked months deadly protests. told ministers would accept undertake talks brokered dominican republic president danilo medina ex-spanish premier jose luis rodriguez zapatero. "zapatero president medina know well promoter dialogue accept new day dialogue," maduro said. maduro appointed influential caracas politician jorge rodriguez representative talks, said would leave dominican republic "in next hours". opposition announced turn would hold exploratory meeting wednesday dominican president. however, insisted mean beginning formal talks government. september 11, 2017 un: venezuela may committed 'crimes humanity' united nations human rights chief said venezuelan security forces may committed "crimes humanity" protesters called international investigation. "my investigation suggests possibility crimes humanity may committed, confirmed subsequent criminal investigation," zeid ra'ad al hussein told un human rights council monday. venezuela's foreign minister defended record government president nicolas maduro, rejecting allegations "baseless". september 9, 2017 delcy rodriguez: humanitarian crisis venezuela delcy rodriguez, president new constituent assembly tells al jazeera humanitarian crisis venezuela. "i denied continue denying venezuela humanitarian crisis," says. rodriguez also speaks al jazeera allegations abuse power venezuela's economic crisis. watch: 700% inflation venezuela (2:27) september 4, 2017 venezuela's opposition-led congress seeks support paris venezuela's opposition-led congress leaders met french president emmanuel macron press humanitarian aid thei crisis-hit nation. "i stressed urgency opening door humanitarian aid venezuela," congress president julio borges said. meeting french president took place first leg european tour seeking support president nicolas maduro. september 3, 2017 venezuela bars opposition activist europe trip prominent venezuelan opposition activist barred leaving country planned meetings leaders france, germany, spain united kingdom. lilian tintori saturday posted photo twitter caracas' international airport holding document migration authorities ordering seizure passport board afternoon flight. explanation given, move came day ordered appear judge tuesday answer questions 200 million bolivars found car. september 2, 2017 venezuela secret service holding ex-minister: family venezuelan former defence minister raul isaias baduel, government critic whose whereabouts unknown three weeks, held intelligence service, family said. baduel's daughter andreina told press conference family told whereabouts phone call new attorney general tarek william saab, brother taken see him. considered opposition one country's prominent political prisoners, retired former army chief, 62, "wearing clothes" last seen august 8 transfer military prison outside caracas, daughter said. baduel due released last march serving nearly eight-year sentence corruption. however, prosecutor's office charged alleged conspiracy oust maduro could face 26 years prison. august 29, 2017 venezuela's assembly votes prosecute 'traitors' venezuela's all-powerful constitutional assembly passed decree ordering authorities investigate try believed responsible supporting new us economic sanctions. august 26, 2017 venezuela holds military drills us threat venezuela kicked two days nationwide military drills seen deterrent military intervention united states. war planes, tanks, 200,000 troops national bolivarian armed forces (fanb) deployed along 700,000 reserves civil militia members exercises formally launched saturday. "against belligerent threats united states, venezuelans ages 18 60 required contribute integral defence nation," said announcement broadcast state television. august 25, 2017 sanctions may 'worst aggressions venezuela last 200 years': fm financial sanctions imposed us venezuela "worst aggression venezuela last 200 years," venezuela's foreign minister said friday meetings un. jorge arreaza said possible us trying "promote humanitarian crisis" country. "what want? want starve venezuelan people? looking for? really don't understand," arreaza said. white house: us military action venezuela 'in near future' white house ruled near-term intervention venezuela, two weeks president donald trump raised specter military action crisis-wracked country. "we always look broad range contingencies might evolve future," trump's national security adviser hr mcmaster said friday white house briefing. "any decision conjunction partners region military actions anticipated near future." trump administration imposes sweeping sanctions venezuela us slapped sweeping financial sanctions venezuela, dramatically ratcheting tensions two countries making harder president nicolas maduro raise badly needed funds prevent debt default. sanctions us president donald trump signed executive order prohibit financial institutions providing new money government sate oil company pdvsa. august 24, 2017 venezuela hold referendum new constitution: assembly venezuela's future constitution, written new assembly packed allies president nicolas maduro, put referendum, pro-government lawmakers announced. 545 members constituent assembly - seized power opposition-led legislature, drawn international scorn - unanimously decided would approve text set referendum date. venezuela's dissident ex-prosecutor granted six months refuge colombia venezuela's former top prosecutor, fled neighbouring colombia last week, may freely enter leave south american country next six months, bogota said, move likely anger president nicolas maduro. following removal post prosecutor, fled venezuela colombia lawmaker husband. removed accusing maduro violating human rights eroding democracy. august 23, 2017 pence: us allow 'collapse venezuela' us vice president mike pence vowed wednesday us would allow "the collapse venezuela," saying event would "endanger" countries wider region. "we stand venezuela crumbles," pence told sympathetic crowd venezuelans south florida. also said us use economic diplomatic power push free elections, adding sanctions come. venezuela's dissident ex-prosecutor 'received threats' venezuela's former chief prosecutor resurfaced brazil , warning life remains danger claiming possess "a lot" proof president nicolas maduro's corruption. speaking crime-fighting conference capital, brasilia, luisa ortega said wednesday: "i received threats may attempt life hold venezuelan government responsible happens." august 22, 2017 ousted chief prosecutor left colombia brazil luisa ortega, fled venezuela last week, left colombia brazil, colombia's migration agency said tuesday. president maduro said would seek international cooperation arrest her. "venezuela going ask interpol issue red notice people involved serious crimes," maduro told news conference, referring ex-chief prosecutor luisa ortega lawmaker husband. august 21, 2017 parlasur rejects intervention venezuela south american regional economic group mercosur issued statement rejecting interference internal affairs venezuela, local media reported. " defend inalienable right venezuelan people decide destiny. threat sovereignty venezuela latin american country unacceptable," statement read. august 20, 2017 'congress resistance' rejects assembly venezuela's opposition-controlled congress rejected self-proclaimed lawmaking authority new legislative body, widening political divide crisis-hit country. congress's declaration resistance followed statements group 12 regional nations plus united states saying would continue regard congress venezuela 's legitimate lawmaking body. august 19, 2017 parliament rejects new assembly's powers venezuela's national assembly convened saturday defiance declaration new constituent assembly seizing full powers opposition-led legislature. move friday constituent assembly, loyal socialist president nicolas maduro, angrily rejected opposition leaders drawn widespread international condemnation power grab maduro loyalists. ousted chief prosecutor arrives colombia colombian migration authorities confirmed chief prosecutor luisa ortega diaz husband german ferrer landed bogota aboard private plane aruba. supreme court ordered ferrer's arrest thursday, accusing part $6m extortion ring. constituent assembly assumes power legislate venezuela's new legislative superbody gave power pass laws, superseding opposition-led congress fuelling criticism government adversaries socialist president nicolas maduro consolidating dictatorship. august 18, 2017 prosecutor vows jail protest leaders tarek saab, appointed new constituent assembly early month, vowed track leaders demonstrations. venezuela hunt jail leaders violent protests, new top prosecutor said, day hate crimes law expected approved despite fears used crush dissent. august 16, 2017 dozens killed gun battle venezuelan prison thirty-seven inmates killed overnight raid government security forces prison venezuela's southern jungle state amazonas. 'truth commission' investigate opposition opposition candidates running venezuela's october gubernatorial elections investigated make sure none involved violent political protests year. russia comments crisis russian foreign minister sergei lavrov stressed need resolve crisis peacefully without external intervention. "we united need rapidly overcome disagreements exist country exclusively peaceful manner, national dialogue without kind pressure outside" lavrov said. august 15, 2017 maduro requests civilian trials president national constituent assembly (anc), delcy rodriguez, reported president nicolas maduro requested cases violence held civilian rather military courts. da silva rejects us threats brazil's former president lula da silva said tuesday maduro's actions justify military intervention country. "we allow whatever mistake nicolas maduro committed commit, allows us president say use force overthrow him" mike pence colombia "president trump made clear stand venezuela collapses dictatorship," us vice president mike pence told reporters cartagena, colombia, according reuters news agency. "a failed state venezuela threatens security prosperity entire hemisphere people united states america," added. maduro calls military drills venezuelan president nicolas maduro called military exercises us president donald trump's threat possible armed intervention country. maduro told supporters caracas prepare "imperialist" invasion. august 14, 2017 saint lucia plans v isa restrictions saint lucia's prime minister allen chastanet announced plans impose visa restrictions venezuelans visiting island precautionary measure face venezuela's situation, local media reported. august 12, 2017 maduro condemns us remarks president maduro said trump solve problems promised - us attack venezuela - vietnam war "would seem small comparison". trump threatens military action "the people suffering dying. many options venezuela including possible military option necessary," trump told reporters impromptu question answer session. "congress obviously isn't authorising war venezuela," said statement. august 09, 2017 court orders jailing chacao's mayor ramon muchacho, governed opposition bastion chacao, gone hiding venezuela 's supreme tribunal sentenced 15 months jail. august 08, 2017 new attorney general appointed venezuela's newly elected representatives national constituent assembly sworn tarek william saab attorney general, following removal luisa ortega. august 07, 2017 venezuela launches manhunt country-wide manhunt launched venezuela men assaulted army base. defence minister vladimir padrino said televised address two men attacked base shot dead eight captured. 10 others run. "this band criminals act noble ideals patriotic principles kind. operated mercenaries paid extreme right-wing groups miami," said. august 06, 2017 military rebellion crushed two people killed least eight others captured armed attack "terrorists" venezuelan military base, president maduro announced state television. military officials said rebels, described "terrorists," trying steal weapons. august 06, 2017 ledezma released back another prominent dissident, 62-year-old antonio ledezma, released back house arrest hauled away day lopez. already home detention since 2015. lopez returned house arrest venezuelan opposition leader leopoldo lopez returned house arrest detained military prison four days, wife lilian tintori said. "they moved leopoldo home," tintori wrote twitter. "we continue conviction strength peace freedom venezuela!" august 06, 2017 ortega removed ortega told reporters attacked attempted enter headquarters accused government attempting hide evidence wrongdoing. "i reject siege. denounce arbitrariness infront national community international" rechazo asedio al @mpvenezolano. denuncio esta arbitrariedad ante la comunidad nacional e internacional #5ag pic.twitter.com/un7qwgbgj7 — luisa ortega díaz (@lortegadiaz) august 5, 2017 new assembly votes ortega venezuela's new assembly voted remove country's dissident attorney general, luisa ortega, security forces surrounded entrance office caracas. assembly also ordered go trial alleged "irregularities" office. august 05, 2017 maduro inaugurates new assembly venezuela's president sworn new constituent assembly power rewrite constitution. 545-member assembly, including maduro's wife son, held inaugural session tight security capital caracas august 03, 2017 maduro rejects claims vote fraud venezuela's president rejected allegations government inflated turnout figures constituent assembly election. maduro accused international firm behind claim bowing us pressure cast doubt called "transparent vote". august 01, 2017 opposition leaders sent jail two venezuela's leading opposition figures, detained day constitutional vote , sent jail orders country's top court. supreme tribunal revoked house arrest measures granted leopoldo lopez antonio ledezma put back jail. supreme tribunal alleged planning flee, either hiding country abroad. august 01, 2017 maduro criticises us sanctions maduro, however, said intention deviating plans rewrite constitution lashed us sanctions, saying move smacked "imperialism". "they don't intimidate me. threats sanctions empire don't intimidate moment," maduro told cheering audience. "i don't listen orders empire, ever." us slaps new sanctions sanctions came electoral authorities said eight million venezuelans voted sunday create constitutional assembly - turnout doubted independent analysts. election, spurred unrest killed least 10 people , labelled illegitimate leaders across americas europe. july 31, 2017 people vote constituent assembly venezuela voted select new constitutional assembly. capital, caracas, violence flared police firing tear gas protesters boycotting vote. least nine people died election-related violence country. july 28, 2017 maduro calls dialogue venezuelan president suggested talks opposition parties votes elect constituent assembly. national strike led opposition second day. july 26, 2017 call two-day strike four days national vote elect constituent assembly, venezuela's opposition called citizens join civic strike 48 hours. strikes march intended voice disapproval president nicolas maduro's plan rewrite constitution july 25, 2017 vigil held caracas venezuelans held vigil capital, caracas, 100 people killed protests. july 22, 2017 neighbours offer mediation south american leaders offered broker talks venezuela' government opposition meeting mercosur trading bloc argentina . july 21, 2017 un diplomat resigns isaias medina, senior venezuelan diplomat un, break ties president maduro july 19, 2017 call national strike opposition leaders said venezuela's democracy reached tipping point, called 24-hour national strike, 7.6 million people rejected constituent assembly. 19 july, 2017 maduro's reaffirms july 30's vote government announced go ahead election constituent assembly july 30, despite threat economic sanctions us president donald trump . elections national constituent assembly act political sovereignty. nothing nobody stop it. constituent assembly happening " foreign minister samuel moncada said speech foreign ministry. july 18, 2017 opposition calls nationwide strike venezuela's opposition officials called nationwide strike president maduro protest plan rewrite constitution. 24-hour strike part opposition called "final offensive" aimed forcing maduro early elections, term ends 2019. july 17, 2017 unofficial referendum opposition asked voters support government's plan elect national constituent assembly overhaul 1999 constitution. plebiscite support electoral power government, considers illegal. july 10, 2017 100 days protests thousands gather east caracas square sunday hear opposition figures including wife lopez, lilian tintori, speak. least 91 people died three months street clashes protesters police, troops government loyalists. july 08, 2017 opposition leader moved house arrest venezuelan jailed opposition leader leopoldo lopez transferred house arrest spending three years behind bars military prison. july 06, 2017 national assembly stormed dozens pro-government activists stormed grounds venezuela's national assembly attacked politicians, leaving several injured. july 05, 2017 attorney general refuses court summons "i going condone circus stain history shame pain whose decision foretold," ortega told news conference public prosecution department. "i committed crime errors going submit unconstitutional illegitimate court," added. "we already know today removed post." june 29, 2017 hunt helicopter attack pilot government looked police officer who's suspected carrying helicopter attack supreme tribunal. venezuela's chief state prosecutor says defy supreme court ruling partially strips duties. protesters streets demanding resignation president nicolas maduro. june 28, 2017 army alert venezuela's president nicolas maduro put military alert. "i activated entire armed forces defend peace," maduro said. "sooner later, going capture helicopter carried terrorist attack." june 28, 2017 court bars ortega travelling supreme tribunal slapped asset freeze travel ban prosecutor general luisa ortega, accused creating "climate terror". june 27, 2017 supreme court attacked helicopter police helicopter dropped grenades venezuela's supreme court building fired shots interior ministry. president maduro labelled "terror attack" government. information minister ernesto villegas said stolen helicopter fired 15 shots ministry caracas afternoon, video released showing men assault rifles flanking oscar perez, former member forensic police force, known cicpc. june 22, 2017 regional summit regional diplomatic bloc unable agree resolve crisis venezuela june 20, 2017 attorney general face trial venezuela's supreme court approved proceedings attorney general, luisa ortega, accused allegedly committing "grave errors" role nation's top law enforcement official. june 17, 2017 twitter accounts suspended least 180 twitter accounts venezuelan government suspended. june 16, 2017 orders prosecute attorney general bolivarian official pedro carreno called supreme tribunal prosecute prosecutor general luisa ortega díaz, magistrates ruling ortega prohibited leaving venezuela. june 15, 2017 thousands march peace thousands marched peace divina pastora procession barquisimeto, lara. june 14, 2017 protests altamira protests occurred altamira, national guard firing tear gas national june 13, 2017 peru's president warns refugee crisis deadly unrest venezuela could lead "a bloodbath" create major refugee crisis, peru's president pedro pablo kuczynski warned. june 09, 2017 students march censorship movimiento estudiantil students marched conatel deliver document critisicing censorship venezuela. march impeded authorities successfully delivered statements. june 06, 2017 students protest constitutional assembly students various universities protested constitutional assembly dozens injured following response national guard. june 04, 2017 protests food shortages inflation opposition politicians called march protest food shortages. least 63 people killed street protests since april 1. june 02, 2017 maduro vows constituent assembly referendum nicolas maduro pledged hold referendum new constitution move came plan create super-body known "constituent assembly" rewrite national charter may 30, 2017 tens thousands protest amid oas talks security forces venezuela used water cannon tear gas disperse tens thousands opposition protesters heading towards foreign ministry, organization american states held another meeting crisis. may 29, 2017 opposition leaders w ounded march two venezuelan opposition leaders among dozen people wounded security forces dispersing protests may 23, 2017 maduro launches constitution overhaul open-air rally maduro signed document formally establishing terms electing members "constituent assembly" "votes bullets, people want?" maduro asked crowd, presenting proposed 540-member body way defuse increasingly violent protests, says part us-backed conspiracy overthrow "21st-century socialism". may 22, 2017 health professionals protest march health occurred caracas demonstrators attempting travel ministry health headquarters protest shortages medicine essential medical supplies. police fired tear gas drive back scenes familiar weeks turmoil. may 20, 2017 50th day protests government protesters marked 50 days demonstrations. least 46 people died clashes since protests began. 50th day consecutive protests, millions venezuelans protested caracas "we millions" march. may 19, 2017 us sanctions supreme court judges united states imposed sanctions venezuela's chief judge seven members country's supreme tribunal punishment seizing powers opposition-led congress earlier year. sanctioned assets frozen within us jurisdiction, us citizens barred business them. may 15, 2017 protesters block roads least one person died thousands opponents president nicolas maduro staged sit-ins roadblocks across country seventh week anti-government rallies. national sit-in occurs thousands venezuelans blocking designated areas trafficking 12 hours. brought death toll since start protests least 39 people. may 13, 2017 venezuelans clog roads protests venezuelans cars motorcycles, bikes horseback clogged roads go protest may 10, 2017 protesters fling faeces soldiers protesters venezuela lobbed bottles bags faeces soldiers fought back tear gas block latest march. may 08, 2017 capriles rejects plan rewrite constitution venezuela's opposition ruled discussions president nicolas maduro plan elected assembly draw new constitution. may 06, 2017 women take caracas streets opposition leaders called women march dressed white, traditional show defiance, brand repressive government. contrast, government announced would organising women's march western part capital, traditional pro-socialist stronghold. may 05, 2017 eight countries denounce crackdown eight latin american nations, including mexico , argentina brazil , collectively denounced venezuela's "excessive use force" civilian protesters death toll anti-government unrest country rose 36. may 04, 2017 clashes plans rewrite constitution protesters, primarily students, marched around caracas, tear gas used near central university venezuela. supporters jailed venezuelan opposition leader leopoldo lopez held vigil outside prison demanding see rumours health rattled protest-hit country. may 03, 2017 maduro calls new constitution president maduro called formation constituent assembly replace venezuela's current constitution. may 01, 2017 rival marches labour day venezuelan president nicolas maduro raised wages handed hundreds free homes part efforts counter strengthening protest movement seeking removal. announcements came government supporters maduro's opponents prepared rival marches commemorate may day. april 26, 2017 'that could've me' juan pablo pernalete, 20-year-old student, killed impact tear gas canister chest protests altamira. following death student, son politician tarek saab uploaded video youtube stating protested night that, "that could've me!", pleaded father saying: "dad, moment power end injustice sunk country. ask - son name venezuela, serve - reflect situation do." april 26, 2017 venezuela quit oas venezuela said withdraw organization american states (oas) reaction pressure bloc government's handling country's political crisis. april 22, 2017 silent march hundreds thousands venezuelans participated silent march memory killed. first time, demonstrators able travel western caracas without barricaded authorities. april 21,22, 2017 twelve killed venezuela twelve people killed caracas overnight following two days mass street protests. office venezuelan attorney general said eleven deaths caused electrocution gunshot wounds el valle del espiritu santo. april 19, 2017 'mother marches' "mother marches," called organisers, occurred. two venezuelan students one police officer died shot. later evening, national guard sergeant killed colonel wounded squad attacked gunfire trying control disturbances city near caracas. first person authority killed year's protests, day's deaths raising death toll 2017 protests least eight people. april 17, 2017 army vows loyalty president venezuela's defence minister declared army's "unconditional loyalty" president nicolas maduro. president maduro ordered expansion venezuelan national militia involve 500,000 loyal venezuelans. april 14, 2017 'overflow caracas' opposition announced "mother protests" march take place april 19 "overflow" caracas. april 12, 2017 'the government cannot continue protect groups' venezuela's catholic church reiterated call calm archbishop jorge urosa savino saying "the government cannot continue protect groups acting illegally". april 10, 2017 student shot protests daniel queliz, 19-year-old student arturo michelena university, shot killed protest valencia carabobo police officer. 50 individuals wounded reported. april 08, 2017 supreme tribunal attacked protests, 16 subway stations 19 caracas metrobus routes closed. supreme tribunal attacked violent protesters, burning furniture, breaking windows damaging front door. april 07, 2017 henrique capriles banned office venezuelan authorities banned top opposition leader henrique capriles running office 15 years. "when dictatorship squeals, it's sign we're advancing," said speech surrounded leading opposition figures, many targeted. "the one disqualified you, nicolas maduro." april 06, 2017 protester shot dead venezuelan authorities confirmed young man killed protests vowed investigate death, first since controversy supreme tribunal blew up. jairo ortiz, 19-year-old student bicentenary university aragua, shot killed protesting carrizal, miranda. april 05, 2017 maduro supporters opposition clash thousands out, supporters 54-year-old president organised rally. "they want intervention venezuela," said juan aponte, 34, wore red colours governing socialist party. april 01, 2017 top court backtracks congress take-over venezuela's supreme court abandoned measures take opposition-led congress. maduro calls court backtrack announcement came hours maduro called court annul initial ruling "in order maintain institutional stability balance powers". april 01, 2017 oas condemn government governments across latin america condemned government move, head organization american states (oas) likened "self-inflicted coup" president maduro . police crack protests security forces repressed protests broke venezuela's capital. march 31, 2017 protests caracas protesters blocked roads, unfurled banners chanted slogans maduro's government, including "freedom!" "no dictatorship!" march 29, 2017 government assumes legislative powers venezuelan constitutional crisis began, immunity taken away opposition parliamentarians supreme tribunal. government assumed legislative powers opposition-controlled national assembly. pageloadedsuccessfully source: al jazeera news venezuela politics latin america
renderpagesvideo('5640272826001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); quilombo 400-year-old communities brazil descended escaped slaves. they’ve survived sometimes prospered, usually remote locations african ancestors mixed indigenous portuguese cultures. quilombos facing new threat proposed change brazilian law critics fear strip land rights. government’s support base includes wealthy landowners agribusinesses vested interest laws changing. daniel schweimler reports sao paulo state, brazil. human rights brazil latin america
renderpagesvideo('5640215544001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); three hours away city formosa, northeast argentina , decades inequality discrimination difficult ignore. it's mostly concentrated country's poor indigenous minority lack basic services systematically ignored state. isidoro castillo community fighting eviction land years. land close las lomitas area call pampa del 20. castillo member wichi community centuries inhabited part country. born area, prove shows pictures taken photographer grete stern mother child. "my mother got sick leave," castillo told al jazeera. "but land part territory, land," added. "for years discriminated, lived poverty want take away thing left make us community again." one time wichis 20,000 hectares land [al jazeera] wichis 20,000 hectares land 1919 . fighting 500. almost six years ago came back stay persecuted. according local sources, land belongs family city formosa. silverio moreno, wichi community member, told al jazeera family city formosa says land belongs done everything possible make wichi leave. shot later hit car, said driven one family members. "he tried run one," told al jazeera. {articleguid} "the second time, succeeded hit me," said. "i struggling recover months left filled nails." community filed least 17 complaints formosa ignored again. wednesday, argentine congress renewed 26,160 emergency law supposed guarantee people won't removed force. also supposed map indigenous communities around country type protection. communities prove historic right live land. 'punishing us every way' community pictures ancient cemeteries enough far received recognition. castillo others say grandparents buried here. cemetery filled small ancient crosses. area evangelised anglican church offered act witness community belongs place. staying pampa del 20 challenge. bernardino martinez, another member wichi community, says current lawsuit happening community allowed much land. "i wanted sell wood survive caught police took everything away," told al jazeera. "we could growing watermelons, onions things sell want punish us every possible way." 1,500 land disputes argentina [al jazeera] argentina, 1,500 land disputes many ended violence deaths. southern patagonia area, group members mapuche indigenous community, taken land owned international clothing brand benetton. clashes august border patrol police ended death activist supporting cause. government mauricio macri says trying continue mapping indigenous communities around country process slow. complex involves negotiations federal local government also private individuals claim land purchased legitimately. cases, like campo del 20, local organisations say papers forged land belongs wichis. "areas like formosa feudal," said pablo chianetta, part association development culture development. "there one power controls all," told al jazeera. "there mentality white man rules general indigenous people's rights ignored again. mentality rural employees slaves." indigenous not, people area among poorest country. children suffer illnesses long eradicated parts argentina. malnutrition norm. {articleguid} "we political advance doesn't depend us alone, also provinces, jimena psathakis, president national institute indigenous affairs, told al jazeera. "we believe governors want move forward issue talking people extremely vulnerable," said. people el campo del 20 continue wait. say province done nothing persecute asking national government intervene. source: al jazeera news human rights argentina latin america
renderpagesvideo('5646096975001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); child labour legalised bolivia 2014, protect promote accept reality try regulate conditions children work. measure condemned home abroad. estimated 20 percent bolivian children, hundreds thousands 17-year-olds, work agriculture, mining, markets streets. al jazeera's daniel schweimler reports eastern region santa cruz. latin america bolivia human rights
renderpagesvideo('5644176079001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); delegates world summit brazil tackling cancer talking ways increase access treatment. people remote regional areas may struggle access services, growing trend people major urban areas missing too. brazil's national cancer institute considered one country's best, patients complain number setbacks obstacles. brazilian health ministry cut funding rio de janeiro's hospitals 35 percent year. al jazeera's daniel schweimler reports brazilian city rio de janeiro. health brazil latin america
mexican us veteran soldiers protests border [jose luis gonzalez/reuters] group mexicans served united states military vietnam iraq deported held veterans day protest border city ciudad juarez. stone's throw bridge juarez el paso, texas, deportees demonstrated flags us military units saturday. "we served country cheated us," said jose francisco lopez moreno, 64. many mexicans served us military exchange expedited residency. veterans deported committing crimes, despite risking lives far-flung combat. "it unfair. separated us families, alone healthcare assistance kind," said lopez, served vietnam deported mexico 2004. veterans us receive pensions healthcare. local officials estimate 300 deportees. "for long live, even die side, always love us flag. life," said ivan ocon, served iraq 2003 last year deported homeland. "it like house come crashing top you, turn backs that," added. "you think would deported part something great, end, throw same," said. "we want go back. that's asking donald trump. fought country," said. trump brought us-mexican ties lowest point many decades, seeking build border wall first said would force mexico fund. later backtracked idea. source: afp news agency mexico war & conflict donald trump united states latin america
renderpagesvideo('5635185569001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); chile one world's leaders clean renewable energy. green industry helping country's economy grow attracting investors. al jazeera's lucia newman reports cerro pabellon, chile. energy environment chile latin america
renderpagesvideo('5642923344001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); hundreds decommissioned school buses us driven south guatemala every month. repaired, repainted, made roadworthy transport millions people across country. upcycled buses haul millions people work every day re-done way able carry roughly double number people buses children us. al jazeera's david mercer reports antigua, guatemala. latin america business & economy
renderpagesvideo('5647090943001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); mexico becoming top medical tourism destination patients around world. one million people expected travel mexico year affordable alternative medical procedures, hailing united states, healthcare costs keep rising. part attraction unconventional cancer treatments, either expensive access patients' home countries approved. mexico's medical tourism industry generates 3 billion dollars year, new clinics health facilities currently construction. medical professionals warn however patients cautious choosing medical facility, international standards. al jazeera’s manuel rapalo reports tijuana, mexico. latin america mexico health
renderpagesvideo('5636077130001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); 18,000 people murdered mexico far year, primarily due drug-related violence, 2017 track become country's deadliest year yet. current situation mexico worse 2011, government declared war drug cartels. al jazeera's julia galiano reports mexico city. latin america mexico war & conflict
renderpagesvideo('5637771054001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); mexico serious overpopulation street dogs, problem repeated sterilization campaigns able fix. millions homeless canines roam streets latin american nation. comes radical new idea - international refugee program pets. al jazeera's john holman reports puebla, mexico. latin america mexico arts & culture
renderpagesvideo('5647123134001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); venezuela already facing humanitarian crisis , also suffering debt crisis . rating agency standard & poor's global declared nation "selective default" missed second deadline make payment due october. critics say venezuela's leaders prioritised clearing debt growing humanitarian crisis left many people hungry children dying hospitals due medical shortages. country's leaders say us sanctions making impossible refinance debt, pursue alternate agreements traditional rivals china russia . al jazeera’s john hendren reports. latin america venezuela business & economy
renderpagesvideo('5638092705001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); youngest defence minister world first line throne, 32-year-old crown prince saudi arabia mohammed bin salman al saud also kingdom's deputy prime minister. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5478498291001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_5478498291001"); brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > watch: mohammed bin salman named saudi arabia's crown prince (1:36) pageloadedsuccessfully early life mohammed bin salman, known colloquially mbs, born august 31, 1985. mother, princess fahda bint falah bin sultan bin hathleen, ajman tribe, whose leader princess' grandfather, rakan bin hathleen. 2008, bin salman married princess sarah bint mashhoor bin abdulaziz al saud, together three children. received primary education riyadh, country's capital, ranked among kingdom's top 10 students. obtained law degree king saud university, graduated second class. throughout time university student, bin salman enrolled various training programmes. professional life graduation, bin salman established number firms became involved governmental work. served secretary general riyadh competitive council, special adviser chairman board king abdulaziz foundation, member board trustees albir society development. part philanthropic work, also established misk foundation, non-profit organisation works cultivating learning leadership saudi's youth develops startups country various business incubation programmes. 2013, awarded "personality year" award forbes middle east role chairman misk foundation recognition support saudi's youth development. regional affairs prince mohammed bin salman embarked political journey served full-time adviser council ministers two years 2007. 2009, became special adviser father, governor riyadh time, continued serve experts commission saudi cabinet part-time consultant march 2013. prince appointed defence minister january 23, 2015, father's accession throne. year, named deputy crown prince. notable move defence minister leading operation decisive storm, saudi-led coalition yemen houthi rebels yemen , launched two months appointment. {articleguid} new crown prince also driving far aggressive foreign policy counter influence regional rival, iran . prior recent appointments, bin salman spent number years father's personal aide. previously president father's royal court king salman crown prince, began introducing changes. addition existing roles, mohammed bin salman also heads council economic affairs development, oversees kingdom's economic affairs, ultimately shaping political security policies. november 2017, four ministers, 11 princes several high-profile entrepreneurs detained orders mbs presented anti-corruption purge . however, measures targeted many direct rivals, thus consolidating prince's power kingdom. economic reforms april 2016, mohammed introduced vision 2030, saudi arabia's vision future, aimed making kingdom heart arab islamic world, investment powerhouse, hub connects three continents. reformative initiative seeks diversify privatise economy, make less reliant oil. 2030, initiative aims establish e-government system. mohammed also plans sell 5 percent aramco, saudi's national oil company . ipo expected raise much $100bn investors wonder whether aramco valued anywhere close $2 trillion figure announced crown prince. also announced $500bn plan create business industrial zone extending across borders jordan egypt. 26,500 square-km zone, known neom, focus industries including energy water, biotechnology, food, advanced manufacturing entertainment, power solely wind power solar energy. entertainment crown prince also called entertainment options kingdom families youth. cabinet passed regulation lessen power religious police, entertainment authority established may 2016. attempt override tradition, also engaged younger saudi muslim scholars active social media better known among saudi youth, opposed kingdom's council senior scholars, set official religious policy often release religious opinions. pageloadedsuccessfully inside story crown prince change saudi culture? function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5625869962001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news middle east saudi arabia mohammed bin salman politics
two former isil cubs enact beheading [screengrab/al jazeera] kasswara* joined isil 14. "we 'cleaners' group. cleaning means slitting throats belong side hiding," teenager raqqa, syria , said. "a guy area decapitated [isil] me. people hands chopped me." since start syrian civil war , armed groups using child soldiers combat. isil, islamic state iraq levant group, thought recruited around 2,000 children. called "ashbal al khilafa", "lion cubs caliphate". video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5624456562001,0,0,300,462, "bcvid_5624456562001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > witness: lion cubs isil (47:30) pageloadedsuccessfully kasswara, 16, fled isil, also known isis, sexually assaulted currently living greece. tells story witness: lion cubs isil . like kasswara, number former cubs fled europe live anonymity. isil swiftly losing ground iraq syria, child soldiers bound leave ranks, raising concerns whether pose future danger. mia bloom professor georgia state university writing book children "terrorist" organisations. ishmael beah fought teenager sierra leone civil war 1990s author unicef advocate children affected war. take happen isil's former child soldiers. mia bloom: lot depends ways children became involved. there's whole range spectrum luring outright coercion. children orphanages hospitals syria iraq taken. handed parents. joined isil way ensure families would get keep house, would get allowance food. know isil used techniques draw children in. would events give away free candy. would march cubs street brand new uniforms children would admire aspire like them. organisation made membership cubs rare desirable thing. children foreign fighters different sort access. different schools whose language instruction might english french. ishmael beah: "i forced become child soldier kids were. circumstances pushed go base sierra leonean army enlist. lost family, home everything knew child. military safest place go, protected going country. army, choice fight. didn't kill, would get killed. fight ammunition, fight food. killing became like breathing. didn't even think it. sit around day nothing happening life, war likely haunt ishmael beah two years, nearly 16 years old, lieutenant handed unicef. first, wasn't happy all. gotten accustomed war. army become new family. it's knew thought life would be. took change. spent eight months re-integration centre. made difference staff worked centre looked us children, soldiers. also given opportunity go school something myself. discovered intelligence could use something else war. eventually, studied political science many things didn't think capable doing. fostered environment could create new memories compete trauma. come war, recover, sit around day nothing happening life, war likely haunt you. community involved reintegration too. learn believe us again. former child soldier often creates expectation violent, you'll always violent. bloom: there's always risk recidivism. true adults children. research pakistan children involved taliban. children brought educational level age. given vocational training could go job. re-educated religiously islam kids studied completely corrupted. also lot aftercare, communities embraced children brought back in. approach successful, children involved taliban became like normal children again. possibility happy ending. ostracisation might push back edge mia bloom members family part taliban, recidivism much higher. isil situation becomes problematic, many cases parents willingly gave children cubs. counts especially foreign fighters, ones going back germany france. children also higher risk relapsing stigma attached group. even parents took four years old, even didn't necessarily sympathise group, back european city perceived foreign element, that's dangerous. ostracization might push back edge. video // <![cdata[ rendergeneralbcvideo(5518284079001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_5518284079001");brightcove.createexperiences(); // ]]]] > inside story: happens child soldiers war ends? (24:49) beah : one problems us going back communities people knew given opportunities didn't receive. unicef centre, running water; people didn't running water. two meals day; people that. lot people thought themselves: fight war kill people, foreigners come give opportunities. re-integration centre, constantly attacked community. people would throw stones building come running compound start fight sticks stones. clearly coming sense injustice. believe holistic approach healing society necessary. child didn't fight affected war too, treated differently. bloom: young isil fighters returning europe puts huge onus countries. keep mind many countries already problems muslim communities comes giving access jobs, education good healthcare. imagine perverse would people didn't join isil don't access good programmes returning fighters get resources thrown them. you're going absurd situation. beah: joined army 13. child, don't go battlefield, pick gun shoot another human being. brainwashed extent believe merit. army, really believed fighting right fight. family killed, fighting make sure people wouldn't children. appealed us lost everything. wanted someone pay happened us. now, war, see narrative used groups would recruit children longer believe it. order function child madness, believe something. justify order survive. bloom: children fought isil, could make argument they're brainwashed, they're parroting adults say. ones 16 17 joined, it's much harder convince that's case. make distinction children exposed violence children participated - ones blood hands. it's going much challenging experience re-integrate them. they're children, treated such. cannot blind assume they're child, they're innocent. beah: anybody show war children 18 started own, don't think former child soldiers prosecuted. would tell children coming isil it's going difficult. there's lot stigma going deal with. make sure strong support network fall back on. it's easy; it's going take time, possible. * real name source: al jazeera author loes witschge loes witschge journalist producer al jazeera english online. @ loeswitschge child rights isis syria's civil war sierra leone middle east
uae saudi arabia entered yemen's war 2015 part military coalition restore legitimacy hadi's government [file: reuters] questions saudi-led coalition's aims yemen mounting wake r eports kingdom placed yemeni president house arrest . tuesday, associated press news agency reported riyadh barred yemeni president abd-rabbu mansour hadi, sons, ministers military officials returning home months. yemeni officials told ap ban due enmity hadi united arab emirates saudi officials rejected hadi's requests travel yemen, claiming unsafe return. uae saudi arabia entered yemen's war 2015 part military coalition. two gulf countries wanted restore hadi's government legitimacy civil war broke hadi's supporters loyal former president ali abdullah saleh , overthrown popular protests 2011. according yemenis, coalition's goal shifted. {articleguid} khaled al-ansi, yemeni political analyst, says saudi's move keep hadi returning yemen means "failed defeating [houthi] coup" "turning back legitimacy". "saudi claims liberated aden control coalition ended coup there. time, says cannot protect hadi aden. mean?" southern city aden temporary base yemen's government seen wave bombings shootings targeting officials security forces recent months. "as yemenis, picture become clear us. accepted presence coalition defending legitimacy - ruin it. find agenda different stated one - saudi's presence yemen become illegal," al-ansi told al jazeera istanbul. {articleguid} "this one points houthis use - say ground hadi able present areas saudi coalition claim liberated." different agendas? saudi arabia expressed "wants out" yemen uae become involved conflict, indicating divide two countries' agendas. august, series leaked emails found mohammed bin salman , saudi arabia's crown prince defence minister, expressed desire end war yemen talks former us officials. uae, meanwhile, financing training armed groups south country. groups answer aidarous al-zubaidi, uae's "man south" leader southern secessionist movement . may, london-based middle east eye news website, quoting sources, revealed hadi accused sheikh mohammed bin zayed, crown prince abu dhabi, acting occupying force, opposed liberation force. soon after, anwar gargash, uae's minister state foreign affairs, said tweet believed aimed hadi: "among rules political action build trust allies, stab back, decisions commensurate capabilities put public interest ahead personal ones." meanwhile, dhahi khalfan, dubai's outspoken police chief, demanded hadi's dismissal. abd-rabbu mansour hadi elected president protests lasting nearly year former president ali abdullah saleh [afp] ap investigation june found uae running dozen secret prisons south, yemen denied claims security forces hadi's control. reports rights groups also found uae funding directing "security belt" - force created 2016 responsible arbitrarily detaining abducting people. uae expands role, military forces loyal hadi's government become absent. reality ground dividing hadi supporters {articleguid} august, confidential report conducted un security council panel experts determined although one saudi-led offensive's main objectives reinstate hadi, political reality ground succeeded dividing hadi's supporters - fighting legitimacy. south formed "competing political council ... stated goal independent south yemen", un report said. "it [the council] includes key officials members legitimate government." report examined proxy militia groups, populated members saudi-led coalition, pursuing individual agendas - result weakened hadi's position. despite mired war two years, coalition far failed achieve stated aims houthi rebels continue hold capital sanaa control country's north. war taken huge toll country - 10,000 civilians killed, millions yemenis left without basic necessities. source: al jazeera news war & conflict yemen saudi arabia united arab emirates politics
renderpagesvideo('5648737083001', 0, '100%', 473, 'vdocontainer'); recent agreements brokered russia , turkey iran kazakhstan's capital astana failing curb number civilian casualties syria's war . many people stayed country pessimistic breakthrough ending six-year-long war. al jazeera's osama bin javaid reports gaziantep near turkish-syrian border. middle east war & conflict
adly seen jailed cairo courtroom 2011 [file photo: egyptian state tv via ap] egypt's feared former security chief reportedly advising saudi arabia's crown prince amid mass arrests kingdom's elite allegations physical abuse detention. habib el-adly - reportedly fled egypt corruption conviction last april - saudi arabia, new york times quoted adly adviser former egyptian interior minister saying. adly, 79, consulting crown prince mohammed bin salman alleged corruption crackdown, report said, includes detention 11 cabinet ministers scores country's leading businessmen. new york times quoted american official saudi doctor saying 17 detained officials required medical attention physical abuse suffered hands guarding them. saudis reportedly held ritz-carlton capital, riyadh. {articleguid} david hearst, middle east eye's editor-in-chief, reported last week "several detainees" suffered wounds "torture beatings". pageloadedsuccessfully adly egypt's interior minister former president hosni mubarak 1997 regime's fall arab spring 2011. time country's top security official, adly developed notorious reputation torture, forced disappearances, human rights abuses. convicted corruption last april sentenced seven years prison, disappeared egypt's interior ministry declared fugitive. adly found guilty embezzling $110m public funds. saudi spokeswoman embassy washington dc told new york times couldn't confirm deny allegations adly's presence kingdom. farid al-deeb, adly's lawyer, denied client saudi arabia. said adly still egypt would appeal seven-year sentence january 11, 2018 court cassation, reported egypt independent news website thursday. adly also faced string criminal cases since 2011 uprising ousted mubarak cleared. accused ordering security forces open fire protesters demanding regime's overthrow. counting cost beyond oil: saudi arabia's 2030 economic vision function showvideo() { renderpagesvideo('5635086211001', 0, '100%', 473, 'bottomvideo'); $(".article-video-block-img").remove();} source: al jazeera news mohammed bin salman saudi arabia egypt middle east
hamas member mohammad nazzal speaks press conference beirut [al jazeera] hamas blamed israeli national intelligence agency mossad assassination one tunisian members fter conducting 11-month-long investigation. palestinian group said mohammed al-zawari, commander armed wing qassam brigades since 2006, fatally shot outside home multiple times car near sfax, 270km southeast tunis, december 15, 2016. hamas set investigative committee immediate aftermath assassination. speaking press conference beirut thursday, mohammed nazzal, hamas politburo member, called mossad operation "terrorist act". "mossad officially accused behind assassination, terrorist act, violation state sovereignty," said. nazzal also said within "responsibility coordinate tunisian authorities" matters relating country's national security "to confront zionist enemy". "tunisia information regarding investigation well, national interest stability highly important us," nazzal said. "because zionists may repeat doings again, responsible tunisia's security - would arab state." according hamas, 49-year-old al-zawari aviation engineer worked development unmanned aerial vehicles. movement credited developing "ababeel" drones used last israeli offensive gaza strip summer 2014. full investigative report, published hamas' website, includes details assassination meticulously planned three stages 2015 involved 12 individuals. two men carried assassination bosnian passports. one individuals, went name chris smith, enrolled national engineering school tunis - university al-zawari studying postgraduate degree. report said smith, told university wanted observe drone innovation, offered al-zawari project, allegedly backed european union, work on. al-zawari declined becoming suspicious him. nazzal said hamas legal body present investigative report order study possible options proceed findings. "i assure legal team examine this," said. "we look options bringing forward lawsuits israel." source: al jazeera news middle east hamas tunisia israel

